Kaldr the Ancient Apparition is a faint and eerie projection of a being that exists outside of time. His stake in the war of the Ancients is unknown, but what we should be more concerned about is the grim fate that he brings to all of creation.
Kaldr appears unto the world as an incorporeal elemental of ice: a being at one with nature, but in this case he is at one with the icy elements of nature. This elemental is naught but an image, a mere projection of a greater being that exists outside time in the cold, infinite void—a presence that predates the universe and awaits its end at the moment of the great equilibrium.
Mere apocrypha dictates that as the cosmos ages and is ushered to its final moments by time, Kaldr's light and power will grow ever stronger. His Ancient moniker will lose its meaning as he defies time's aging and grows younger, his grip of ice will bring all matter to a stop, his image will cast a light too terrible to behold and herald the coming of the great equilibrium!
Kaldr is a subordinate to the Fundament  Enigma. He seems to not acknowledge this (likely on purpose) which causes Enigma to remind him of his place.
According to Wukong, Kaldr has a crush on  Crystal Maiden and wishes to ask her out on a date.
Kaldr is, as his name says, an apparition. He is a spiritual being in a body of ghostly ice that is animated by the spirit within. Because he embodies and wields ice and cold, he is an ice elemental.
This is not his true form, however. His lore suggests that he embodies the heat death of the universe, as implied in his lore which mentions the cessation of matter in the time of the great equilibrium. Kaldr's earliest depictions were once recorded in unreadable texts written in an extinct language. Archivists from the Ultimyr Archives have found these texts and one of them attempted to use a deciphering spell to read it, but was driven mad as a result.
The power that we observe from Kaldr is but a fainted echo of his true cosmic form. His powers are limited to a worldly ice elemental that can manipulate cold and ice, but soon Kaldr will gradually grow stronger as the end of the universe approaches where he will be able to stop matter itself. It would seem that he is no mere elemental however, since he can control time to a minor extent.
Outside of  Cold Feet's effect in gameplay, the lore for this ability implies that it is much more powerful than what we see from his gameplay. The ability's lore describes that just his mere presence can draw those around him into a frozen void, where they will be locked in an "icy prison" for eternity. This "frozen void" might be the same cold and infinite void where Kaldr's image springs from outside time, which means that this ability is no mere freezing spell, but rather a gateway beyond time and into the void itself.
Kaldr manipulates frozen, caustic winds at a whim, creating an  Ice Vortex that freezes the area and anyone caught in its area of effect.
Chilling Touch allows Kaldr to use his "eternal knowledge" to imbue his attacks with a frigid enchantment. The old lore for this ability before it was reworked once stated that this also enchants his allies.
Channeling ice storms from ages past through his frosty limbs, Kaldr releases their power through an  Ice Blast that crashes into the world and freezes anyone caught in its ill wake into statues of ice. The lore implies that these ice storms are actually drawn from time periods in the past before being sent into the present by Kaldr, hinting at some form of temporal power.
Allies meeting Ancient Apparition
Enemies meeting Ancient Apparition
Enemies killing Ancient Apparition
Others
