The Arts of Oblivion is a brand of dark magic practiced by the people of the Nether Reaches. It allows the user to manipulate the evil elements of the Nether Reaches and a mysterious power called Oblivion, which Pugna often speaks of.
The Arts of Oblivion draws its dark power from the nether energies of the Nether Realm. It's unknown what this Oblivion is, but it is often used as a metaphor for death, a strange controllable power, personified as an evil force of destruction and a source of power by Pugna. Regardless, the Arts of Oblivion focus solely on death and destruction. A user of the Arts of Oblivion must "become Oblivion" in order to master Oblivion. What this really means is unknown, but it might mean that one must become an extension of its power to master it. With this dark mastery, they can channel the powers of the Nether Reaches even when they're far from it in the surface world, which might explain why it is called the Nether Reaches.
Pugna claims that all magics have their source in the Nether Reaches. Aether (also known as void and nothingness) is an essential ingredient in the arts of the arcane, including the Arts of Oblivion.
Encompassed by the Arts of Oblivion includes the ability to manipulate the emerald fires of the Nether Reaches, which is powerful enough to reduce anything into ashes, be it a living thing or a mighty structure. Magical augmentation is also within the scope of the Arts of Oblivion.
Nether Blast is a spell that summons the fires of the Nether in the form of deafening explosions to incinerate the caster's victims and targets. It can be cast on the ground to destroy anything in its wake or inside the target to destroy them from within.
Decrepify banishes its victims to the Nether Reaches, causing them to turn ethereal. This renders them unable to affect or be affected by the happenings of the material plane, but they're still susceptible to magic and spiritual attacks.
The previous grandmaster of Oblivion once had a porphyry wand and an amulet in his possession. It's possible that he uses these items to work his magic and channel his powers.
A  Nether Ward can be infused with Nether magic to turn it into a stationary emplacement that fires bolts of energy at nearby casters who uses their spells in its presence.
Oblivion's Locket may be an item related to the Arts of Oblivion, given that it can also turn the user ethereal, just like Pugna's Decrepify spell.
The  Oblivion Staff may be related to the Arts of Oblivion. It was once owned by an Eldritch, of whom we know absolutely nothing about, besides being a powerful entity.
The  Void Stone is an article of jewelry that was once used to channel nether realm magic.
Among the Grandmasters of this dark art,  Pugna is the most notable practitioner of this brand of evil magic. Even when he was a year and a month old, he was already able to use the fires of the Nether, but only in small fire-gouts that were deceptively devastating. His skill was further honed in the previous grandmaster's academy for the Arts of Oblivion.
Viper has learned Pugna's magic during his captivity, using it to augment his body and poison.
Rubick rejects the Arts of Oblivion and seeks its oblivion, likely because of how effective it is against spellcasters with its infamous Nether Ward.
