


Strygwyr the Bloodseeker is a blood rite hunter, a vicious hunter of his faith that was ritually bound by the Blood Oath. He is but one of the many known as "Those Who Ever-Thirst" who faithfully serve the Flayed Twins, a pair of unstoppable deities who can only be pacified by blood to stave their vicious thirst.
Granted by his gods the energy of a ferocious hound and the power to wield his patrons' divine blood, this dogged yet spiritual hunter descends from the lofty peaks of Xhacatocatl with one goal in mind: to search for those willing and unwilling and release the gift of life that flows within their bodies.
Bound to the will of the Raw Twins by honor and the Blood Oath, Strygwyr is a ritually sanctioned hunter who descends from the mountainous Xhacatocatl to harvest blood for his gods. Although his task appears to be sinister to any unwitting observer, he does all of his work in the name of his people and the twin gods they worship. The Flayed Twins require oceans of blood to keep themselves sated and pacified, but failure to fulfill their needs shall result in them draining all of Xhacatocatl's people. Thus he dons the mantle of the blood rite hunters to collect as much blood as possible, with his work made much easier thanks to the sacred markings of his gear that immediately channels the collected vital energies to the Twins.
Strygwyr is the latest descendant of an ancient lineage of blood rite hunters who have also served the Flayed Twins in bygone times that no living being of the modern times can remember. In his youth, he served his blood hunter predecessors as a courier before he took on their mantle.
In one of his travels, Strygwyr stumbled upon a strange benighted land that held executions over sacrifices. The killings that were offered to no one intrigued him for it was such a foreign concept to one who is accustomed to performing and receiving sacrifices. Before he could observe such fascinating customs, he needed to ensure that his visage and his identity were hidden to any suspicious bystanders. Hence he wears the local garbs of the land to blend in; including a hood a cape bracers and a skirt while fastening them with crude hempen rope from a noose that he found to be very useful. He also discarded his usual obsidian blades before heading out, until he managed to commission a pair of metal blades from the local blacksmith. Although he temporarily discarded his equipment that carries the sacred markings, he still relies on sacred lines of power to channel the blood he collects.
Strygwyr spent an entire season studying this backward culture. He observed that the executioners of the gallows carried out their deeds with metal blades (guillotines) and hemp rope, decapitating and asphyxiating unlucky victims while a mob would watch their deaths with morbid fascination. He soon realized that the mob itself was a deity in disguise, and that the executions were actually sacrifices offered to it. Satisfied with his investigation, he departed for his homeland to share what he learned with his masters of Xhacatocatl's priestly caste.
Strygwyr was mentioned in passing when  Dark Willow meets him as an ally. She says that she saw him at Roseleaf, but she kept her distance from him so that she wouldn't get killed. Cut Artifact card art shows that Strygwyr has been harvesting Oglodi for their blood, likely from the battles between Stonehall and the Red Mist in Roseleaf.
He is also dispatched to sacrifice Prellex and Kanna, the two leaders of the Radiant and the Dire, respectively.
Character References
Strygwyr respects those who have made themselves known for their reputation of death dealing and bloodshed, because their actions are indirect benefits to the Flayed Twins. This includes the likes of  Pudge  Luna  Necrophos and Sorla Khan.
Strygwyr dislikes  Omniknight. He also acts on the will of his twin gods, who seek the Omniscience as sacrifice. He also dislikes  Chen and sees his faith in Obelis as a sad and empty thing.
Acting on the will of the Flayed Twins, Strygwyr is hostile towards and dispatched to hunt demons who fear these gluttinous gods. Anessix is one of these demons hunted by their hound as seen in Dota Underlords. Eztzhok also attempted to possess Strygwyr, something that his twin gods did not take kindly to.
Under his hood, Strygwyr has an eyeless face. He more than makes up for this handicap with a blessing from the Flayed Twins, who guide his vision with their own in the place of his nonexistent eyes.
Strygwyr's original form is unknown, but over the years his appearance has drastically changed. In his current form, he has come to embody a houndlike being. In the process of him quenching his thirst with blood, the features of the Flayed Twins may manifest in his face and take direct possession of their hound. Eztzhok was also able to manifest his visage in Strygwyr's, but his influence was dispelled by the Flayed Twins nearly too late with great sacrifice on their part.
Strygwyr's default garbs are imbued with sacred markings that allow him to channel the blood that he lets to the Twins. His default weapons, which are made of tough obsidian, are also imbued with these markings as well. Some of his equipment may be stained in the blood of the Twins themselves.
He may be seen wearing armor adorned with the surprisingly durable feathers of a Hlotl beast. These feathers are said to offer benedictions to the wearer. This armor may even be adorned with the tusks and fangs of the great beasts native to Xhacatocatl.
He once wore the primitive gear of the Bonehunters, a group of ferocious hunters living in the drylands. This bony equipment is worn alongside his default garbs which appear to be damaged and tattered. Speaking of bones, Strygwyr has access to a pair of heavy blades that are counterbalanced by a heavy portion of a prized red drake's spine.
In some occasions, Strygwyr may take on the mantle of the Scarlet Raven. The garbs that he wears has a resemblance to the birds of prey who serve the Flayed Twins. While wearing these garbs, he is known as the Feathered One, flying towards his sacrifices (metaphorically) and striking at his prey with talon-like blades (literally) with an inhuman thirst for quivering heart-meat. He may also wear a headpiece that honors Iczoxtotec, the Herald of Blood. This great bird of prey is also bound to the Flayed Twins, soaring through the skies to search for sacrifice. When blood is shed in battle, the skies above will darken and herald the coming of this great raptor to the carnage.
At some point in time, he was given a pair of demonic blades bearing the visage of Eztzhok. He wields these blades at the sight of his twin gods to share the blood he collects with the demon Eztzhok, which they do not approve of.
Even without his sacred appurtenances, Strygwyr can channel the blood that he lets to his gods through sacred lines of power. The collected blood is not just given as tribute for the Flayed Twins, but also a source of self-healing. He can also absorb different kinds of vital energy, such as the essence that  Outworld Destroyer channels through his being.
Strygwyr's  Bloodrage allows him to bestow his animalistic thirst for bloodshed on others, making them just as vicious as the hound himself. When used on himself, it increases his own strength. Unused voice lines suggest that this skill, when cast on someone else, causes them to choke on blood. The blood inside their throat and mouth prevents them from speaking and reciting incantations aloud, hence the Silence debuff that it used to have. It is unknown if this ability still does that in the lore as it has long been reworked.
Calling upon the power of the Flayed Twins themselves, Strygwyr performs a  Blood Rite on the battlefield. Once cast, Strygwyr will baptize the target area in the sacred blood of his twin gods, spattering the ground with a bloody symbol of the Flayed Twins' eye: a reminder that these enigmatic gods are always watching. Little to no information exists of how this ability harms its victims.
When blood is shed, Strygwyr undergoes a  Thirst for blood. The faintest scent of blood is enough to send him into an animalistic frenzy, making him doggedly in the hunt for his victims. It's possible that Strygwyr can sense injured victims from far distances thanks to the Flayed Twins guiding him with their own vision.
Although  Rupture has very little lore to describe what it does, it can probably be assumed that it works just like its gameplay counterpart. In that case, this ability will literally rupture an opponent, causing them to bleed with each step they take while affected by this power.
Allies meeting Bloodseeker
Enemies killing Bloodseeker
Enemies dying to Bloodseeker
Others
