
Byssrak is the Void Eldwurm in the animated series Dota: Dragon's Blood. whose soul supports the universe as one of the eight pillars of creation. Among the four Eldwurms that represent the four fundamental forces, he is the draconic equivalent of Enigma, the Fundamental of Gravity. He is extremely brief with his speech, only speaking one word at a time and does not use any sentences or phrases when speaking.
Byssrak and his fellow void dragons have several resemblances to Enigma that are integrated into their design such as their similar color schemes and the violet energy that flows through the cracks between their scales. One unique feature that they possess is their tail club that is shaped like a vase. It contains the same energy that flows through their body, but its purpose is unknown. At first glance, the void dragons appear to be wingless, more so  than even the earth dragons who only wear vestigial wings, but their real wings manifest out of their shoulder plates in the form of mysterious violet energy.
Judging by the equipment that was crafted from their remains, Byssrak and the void dragons have the ability to manipulate gravity and space. It is from his species that Kaden's Blade was forged with which means they can manipulate their own gravity to exponentially increase their own mass, allowing them to strike harder with their massive tails and other limbs. The portal scrolls used by the Dragon Knights (such as Bram) are also made from void dragon remains. This could imply that void dragons can also manipulate space to teleport themselves over a considerable distance.
Like all Eldwurms, Byssrak is immortal in a sense that he can reincarnate as long as there is a suitable host body for his soul to take up residence. Upon death, he finds the next oldest dragon of his type (which is the void dragons in his case) before filling their soulless body with his own soul. The vessels he possesses are not immortal themselves, so they all die naturally like any living creature, but it is said that they have long lifespans and grow stronger in both physical strength and their respective elemental powers as they mature and age rather than wither into weaker dragons.
