Centaurs are a race of four-legged beings. Beings like  Leshrac or  Magnus are similar to centaurs in appearance, but are not considered centaurs.
The centaurs appear to be a widely distributed species. Some live in the lands of Druud while some live in the landmass where Roseleaf and Stonehall can be located. Other centaurs seem to live near or within the forest territories of the Ancients.
The centaurs do not differ much from the centaurs of fantasy and mythology works, but they do have a few distinct features. Because of this, one centaur may not look like the other centaur.
Their lower torso, which is that of a horse, have varying builds that differ from each individual. Some have lean bodies while others have stocky bodies. Some centaurs have bodies that are fully colored in light beige or blue skin. Some centaurs may have light beige skin for their upper torso and a dark brown color for their lower torso. The stronger centaurs have hides that are thick enough to deflect attacks. Centaurs may grow feathering, the long hair that can be seen on the lower legs of some horse breeds.
Their upper torsos embody a few humanoid features. They may also grow hair (or facial hair for the males) in different colors, usually black or white. Some centaurs may grow a pair of horns that can either be curled or straight in appearance, possibly growing longer when they age. They have short pointy ears and small tusks protruding from their lower jaw. While some centaurs mostly have humanoid faces with the aforementioned features it is possible to see some centaurs have short black noses (like the one seen on dogs) on their face.
The centaurs of Druud are organized into clans, of which only one is known by name, the Marrowfell Hunters. Every year, the Marrowfell clan gallops to Roseleaf to anticipate the migration of the Thunderhides, picking off the strongest members of the herd for trophies. The hunt is a sacred rite to these clansmen, and any attempts to impede it will not be met kindly by the hunters.
The clans were formed at the Clanfounding, presided over by the Elder Greyhoofs.
Centaurs of the clans may find outsider centaurs strange, suggesting a rift in culture.
Despite having no written language, music, or formal religion, centaurs have developed a sophisticated culture around combat, which they believe to be an art, and the highest form of expression. As a proud group of death artists, they must choose their tools of the art wisely. The Centaurs' preferred weapons are axes, maces, halberds, and flails. Some centaurs are skilled archers as well. Indeed, it is believed by many centaurs that the road to glory is paved with dead enemies. Braiding their tails before battle, centaurs seek to have their names remembered through conquest.
The centaurs participate in gladiatorial rites, gathering in particular at the arena of Omexe, and ancient proving ground where warriors from the clans have competed for millennia. The champion of this contest is awarded the Great Belt of Omexe, worn around the torso. Its most recent recipient is Bradwarden, the  Centaur Warrunner, who defeated every challenger until he alone remained standing in the arena. In addition, those victorious in the arena have the right to take the  weapons of any they vanquish.
Prized above all is the Gloried Horn of Druud, an enchanted relic that, when sounded, calls all the centaurs of Druud to battle. It is carefully guarded by the Warrunner and the clan vanguards.
A fierce and free people, the centaurs forbid its members from ever wearing a saddle as it is a sign of servitude to another, although stylish caprisons are permitted, and admired.
