The very embodiment of the phrase "No good deed goes unpunished", Clinkz the Bone Fletcher is the damned protector of the Hoven lands, sentenced to an eternity of torment by a reward of infinite vitality that became the catalyst of his infinite suffering.
Hailing from a vast forest kingdom called The Hoven, where pools of tar accumulate from the Bleeding Hills, Clinkz is a sworn protector of the Hoven lands and its king-mage Sutherex, protecting the forest kingdom with his recognized skills in archery. In the three-hundredth year of the immortal king-mage, the demon Maraxiform rose from Sixth Hell to lay claim to the forest. In response, Sutherex decreed an unbreakable spell: to any who slew the demon would be granted Life Without End.
Unaware of the spell, Clinkz waded through the Hoven's tar pools to meet Maraxiform in battle. He successfully drove the demon back to its rift that lead to Sixth Hell where both combatants were locked in a mortal conflict. The wounded demon let out a blast of Hellfire just as Clinkz shot the final arrow that he will ever release as a mortal being. Both arrow and Hellfire found their target, killing Maraxiform and igniting the black pools across the land which burned Clinkz alive at the same time.
The archer should have been incinerated were it not for him unwittingly fulfilling the spell's condition. The immortality spell was cast at the very moment when Clinkz was immolated and it preserved him before the Hellfire could consume his entire body. He survives now as a skeletal being of rage and agony, forced to feel the ever-burning Hellfire lapping his bones and his soul, neither Hellfire nor senescence being able to end his suffering.
But Clinkz is not one to squander his boon-curse. In defiance of the pain that he feels, he continues to dedicate himself to the defense of the Hoven lands, patrolling all reaches of his beloved forest with one painful step after another and gifting Maraxiform's soul-fire to all who dare to make threats and carry them out against the Hoven.
Despite his reputation for being quick to anger, he is still revered among the people of the Hoven. He unknowingly reciprocates their respect by keeping the Hoven lands safe from harm.
Clinkz carries a bow made of the bony remains of his grandfather, likely as a way to honor him. Using the bow as a medium, he often gives Clinkz unwanted advice.
Snapfire trusts Clinkz to keep her secret cookie recipe and tells him to never reveal it until she's gone.
The source of Clinkz's immortality and suffering, this spell was first decreed by the king-mage Sutherex as a reward (and an incentive) for anyone who could kill Maraxiform. The spell is cast and activated by a strange geas, but without the restricting magic. Upon fulfilling the spell's conditions, the immortality spell will be bestowed upon the entity who fulfilled it. The spell is said to be unbreakable, but what this means in practice is unknown.
Life Without End grants eternal life beyond mere longevity to its recipient. In addition to that, it seems that being under this spell allows the user to be resurrected by Sutherex should they be killed. The circumstances surrounding the spell's activation during Clinkz's demise has placed his own existence between the brink of life and death. The spell is said to come from Sutherex's bond of life and death, which allowed Clinkz to exploit this spell's properties and gain new ways of using his immortality beyond its intended use.
His immortality keeps him from being claimed by Maraxiform. It's possible that if he dies permanently, Maraxiform will finally claim him and drag him back to Sixth Hell.
Fitting for his Bone Fletcher moniker, Clinkz's weapon of choice is an unorthodox shaped bow crafted from sharp bone. No ordinary bow, it lacks a physical bowstring and instead uses a stream of Hellfire emanating from the tip of its limbs that only appears when he draws it back and loads it with an arrow. His bony arrows have a long shaft that slightly dwarfs his short stature.
Aside from his default bow, Clinkz owns a variety of bows made from the remains of beings before him. He has a bow brought back from Hell itself, a recurve bow attached with the vertebrae of the fallen damned, a bow made from the preserved bones of his grandfather that is imbued with spirit fire, and a bow made of bone and steel that's inscribed with runes of a lost language that can corrupt anyone who manages to read them, provided that they can understand it in the first place. Most of his bows have sharp pointy ends that he can use as a makeshift melee weapon should he run out of ammunition.
None of these bows are as wicked as Maraxiform's head, which he has fashioned into a bow. As punishment for condemning Clinkz to the indignities of eternal torment, he has made the demon's expired visage into a bow so that both of them will witness Clinkz's suffering together, unable to look away as he carries it with him forever.
Clinkz wears a set of enchanted armor that was forged by blind smeevils a long time ago. The armor represents a vague demonic being known as the Vandal. It includes the Demon Guise, an iron mask to hide one's identity, the claw of the Vandal, and an enchanted pair of shoulder armor. It also comes with a quiver that's said to have an endless supply of arrows.
Clinkz may keep his arrows in a furnace brimming with Maraxiform's fire, which he carries on his back like a quiver.
Clinkz's powers are a combination of his archery skills, his newfound power over demon fire, and exploitations of his immortality spell: Life Without End.
The Bone Fletcher's speed with the bow allows him to unleash a  Burning Barrage of arrows to turn his enemies into oversized pincushions, or if he has lit his arrows beforehand, into cremated remains.
By lighting his arrows with Maraxiform's soul-fire, Clinkz can fire  Searing Arrows from his bow, bringing the same torrid fate that he survived to his enemies. The way he transfers his Hellfire to his arrows in the quick of battle is ambiguous, something Windranger is curious about.
Skeleton Walk complements Clinkz's ambush tactics as an archer. Upon activation, Clinkz turns invisible as a burst of fire and a puff of smoke cover his disappearance.
Burning Army is a good example of Clinkz exploiting his undead state as a source of power. Clinkz's restorative immortality and consuming Hellfire has balanced him on the brink of life and death, turning him into an undead who is not so alive or dead. He has learned how to temporarily bridge the gap between them both to perform necromancy and reanimate a group of fiery skeletal archers to his side.
Death Pact is the king-mage's Life Without End spell used in a more offensive way. Having assimilated the spell that preserved him into his being, Clinkz taps into Sutherex's bond of life and death to re-enact his pact on lesser beings, restoring his health at the cost of stealing the life of an unlucky sacrifice.
Allies meeting Clinkz
Enemies killing Clinkz
Others
