The Court of Ristul is a retinue of infernal beings who are representatives of their respective hells and the afterlife. They are led by prominent inhabitants of the Seven Hells and the afterlife that comes before it, such as the Narrow Maze.
The Court of Ristul is the link between the world of demons, the afterlife that leads to it, and the worlds outside of them. They are willing to hear out those who seek an audience with them, especially those desperate for power and other needs. The Court of Ristul strives upon the hopeless and desperate. From there, these people strip themselves of their morals and turn to the Court of Ristul to lend their unholy strength and resources.
It is from these people that the Court of Ristul gains their strength and influence upon the material plane. Those who seek an audience with the Court of Ristul do not undergo simple and mundane transactions. A representative of the court will claim their soul and place a mark upon them to signify their bond and allegiance to the court, usually gaining unholy powers in the process.
Although the Court of Ristul may appear to be a sign that even demons have etiquette and politics, it is not always the case. While demons do lack in morals, they do not lack a hierarchy. In the Court of Ristul, the balance of power is constantly shifting towards those who increase their influence. As self-centered and egotistical creatures, the demons of the court are always competing for power and influence over the Court of Ristul, even willing to put their own kin under their heel.
As of Artifact, the Court of Ristul is currently led by three demon lords: Shadow Fiend, Underlord, and B'Kor.
The Court of Ristul is represented by many entities. Some of their members have cults and followers and some simply represent the court on their own.

