The Demon Witch tradition is a brand of sorcery that allows the user to wield the powers of the Seven Hells and its denizens.
Very little details and information exists about the Demon Witch tradition of sorcery, as its other practitioners and potential disciples have been slain by its sole practitioner who now refuses to share its secrets, and it is considered a rare sorcery to the outside world of magic. Still, much can be learned about this magic from its sole practitioner, Lion. Users of this magic can make dangerous pacts and covenants with demons, granting them access to the Hells and its powers. Despite this evil power, its practitioners were actually heroic.
This brand of magic has several levels of mastery, its exact numbers and ranks unknown. Only two levels of mastery are known, which is an acolyte and a Grandmaster, the lowest and the highest ranks of the Demon Witch tradition, respectively. Acolytes to this magic tradition are offered up by their own family to join in rather than volunteering by themselves. Regardless of their rank, a Demon Witch must stand in defiance of powers both visible and imperceptible.
Pugna claims that all sorceries have their source in the Nether Reaches. Aether (also known as void or nothingness) is an essential ingredient in the arts of the arcane, including the Demon Witch tradition.
Earth Spike is an application of the user's demonic covenant. With this pact, a connection between the mage and a chosen demon is made, linking them with the Hells to open up fissures from that place.
Fitting for a brand of magic related to the inferno, sorcerers must wield devices that symbolize the Hells' malice to wield its power. One such device is a scepter that allows the caster to shoot hellfire from it. They may wear the skin of an incubus that seems to have no practical use whatsoever, but it symbolizes the wearer's power over the Hells.
Demon Witch mages have access to a physically visible third eye that allows them to clearly see past the mortal realm and into the inferno.
Lion was once the greatest Demon Witch mage among his brethren, who started out as a mere acolyte who was offered up to the tradition by his family and rose above the ranks as the Grandmaster of the Demon Witch tradition of sorcery. After his demonoplasty and the purging of his subordinates and followers, he survives now as the sole practitioner of this magic, mulcting the mana of anyone who dares to ask Lion for his instruction in the ways of the Demon Witch.
The inquisitive Magus  Rubick is interested in the Demon Witch brand of sorcery. He regrets slaying the only person who could show him this magic.
