A Desert Wyrm is a species of dragon in the lore of Dota 2.
It's implied that they live in the desert of Misrule.
Based on their sole appearance in Lina's Dragon Slave ability, a desert wyrm's form has a serpentine body with no limbs save for a pair of wings.  Their wings have only two long spread-out digits and each digit is tipped with a sharp talon. Although not shown by her ability, it is possible that they had membrane between each digit, like all dragons. Overall, the Desert Wyrms resemble amphipteres or winged wurms. The bones of a dragon's skeleton are tough yet light and akin to the bones of an avian creature.
Like most dragons, if not all of them, desert wyrms stoke their fire breath in their gullet. This is the same organ where they store their swallowed foods, which is gnashed and grinded by the steel, iron, or other hard material that they keep in there.
'Tis possible that desert wyrms have some of a dragon's usual characteristics, such as having remains that still retain their powers and properties even in death: including their scales and fiery blood.
The remains of a dragon, such as a  Dragon Scale, retains some of the powers and properties that it had in life. Hence, their remains outvalue even the largest dragon hoard.
The desert wyrm is solely found in  Lina's  Dragon Slave ability. During her time in Misrule, Lina learned to manipulate their fire breath as a form of entertainment. However, what comes out of this spell is an ethereal dragon rather than their actual flame breath. It's implied that "breath" in this context means "life" which is synonymous with "spirit", "vitality", "life force", or any other word for the essence of life. This means that Lina is actually using their soul as an attack.
Lina is the current wyrm-kissed child of this eon, a descendant of an ancient ancestry. It's possible that these children are blessed with power by the desert wyrms.
