
Dragons are the physical manifestations of the Eldwurms.
All dragons in the story of Dragon's Blood are classified by the four fundamental forces and the four classical elements that they can manipulate. For the elements of nature, there are fire dragons, water dragons, air dragons, and earth dragons. And for the fundamental forces, there are void dragons, ionic dragons, luminous (or gold) dragons, and chaos dragons. They are further classified by their age, starting with the youngest, smallest, and weakest dragons that are known as hatchlings, wyrmlings (who are the equivalent of teenage or adolescent dragons), adults, and eldwurms—the oldest, largest, sleepiest, and the most powerful dragons. Regardless of what stage they are in, they are extremely deadly as Bram notes that even hatchlings can tear a grown man's face off.
When a Dragon dies, A dragon must slay the human to bond their blood giving a human powers from Breathing fire, to turning into a Dragon/Human Hybrid at the cost of a bit of sanity. But a Dragon can also link their communication to other dragons.
A superficial view on these dragons may cause one to think that they are all distinct entities on their own, but that is not the case. All dragons within a single elemental/fundamental species are actually the physical avatars of their respective Eldwurms (note the capital "E" that differentiates them from eldwurms who are just old dragons), mere extensions of the Eldwurm's vast embodiment. Because of this, they lack their own soul (hence its lack of consciousness and self-awareness) until an Eldwurm incarnates/reincarnates into these soulless bodies.
