The Eldwurms (also known as eldwyrms, elderwurms, grand dragons) are old, wise, and powerful dragons in Dota 2's lore.
Auroth often mentions a place where the Eldwurms congregate to roost. This roost is a vantage point, since Auroth was able to see the Ancients' battlefield from this roost.
The Eldwurms are defined by their age and knowledge rather than their common physical characteristics since it seems that any species of Dragon can be an Eldwurm if they fulfill the requirements of being old and wise. Hence, they are an intellectual class of dragons rather than a species or strain of dragon.
Written by not just one Eldwurm but any of them, the somewhat open-ended Eldwurm Eddas (a.k.a. Eldwurm's Edda, Eldwurms' sagas, etc.) is a massive poem, like an edda or saga, that recounts the colorful history of the Eldwurms, as well as any other wonders and terrors of the world that its authors might record.
The Elder Myth is, well, an ancient myth. Not much is said about its contents. It has something to do with Auroth for some reason. The only thing currently known about the Elder Myth is that if one will petition two dragons for their thoughts on it, it may result in receiving five replies.
In their search for knowledge, ancient eldwurms have learned techniques for staving off death itself.
It would seem that most of the Eldwurms are dead, according to most of the responses that mention them.
Slyrak is a massive and powerful Eldwurm who possesses many centuries of wisdom. He is best known for transferring his strength and wisdom to this  Dragon Knight, the latter of which has been merged with Sir Davion's valor alongside the other Eldwurms' wisdom, both of which are now the source of his nobility.
Auroth the  Winter Wyvern is yet another Eldwurm, but she is actually the last Eldwurm left, not counting Slyrak who partially exists in this world. As such, she's the last keeper of the Eldwurm's Edda and perhaps the oldest Eldwurm in existence.
It's implied that Vyxia is an eldwyrm because of her "grand dragon" title, a title that was also used to refer to another dragon of large proportions who's implied to be Slyrak himself, judging by the evidence. Seeing how all that remains of Vyxia is a sword in Sir Davion's possession that's made from her scales, teeth, and fiery blood, she is most likely dead.
It seems that the  Lich is ill-disposed to the two remaining Eldwurms. He seeks to battle and perhaps kill Slyrak and he has done something wrong to Auroth that has shocked the Netherdrake  Viper, implying some sort of backstabbery. His wrongdoing against Auroth may have taken place after he warmed up to her in Artifact.
