The Eldwurm Eddas (or Eldwurm's Edda) is an ancient, dragon written text in the lore of Dota 2.
Contributed to by the Eldwurm scholars, the Eldwurms' Edda has accumulated aeons of rich dragon history in the form of epics, poems, sagas, etc. This Edda is a record of great events in their history, chronicling stuff like battles and triumphs. Because of this, the Eldwurm Eddas have a great historical value to them.
The Eldwurms' sagas speak of a being long lost to oblivion, long before Ostarion's time, who once managed to collect and condense enough Wraith Essence for this dark Wraith-Night ritual to turn their body into that of a wraith's.
The Eldwurm Eddas are open-ended, but only to the Eldwurms. This means that anyone can contribute to its contents, but that "anyone" only includes the Eldwurms themselves.
This once prolific Eldwurm scholars contributed their knowledge and skills to the pages of their Eddas. Nowadays, the few remaining dragon scholars have not been productive lately, and they have been adding only a few lines to their Edda since their last age of greatness.
Winter Wyvern is one of these dragon poets who contribute to the Edda, Afflicted with writer's block, Auroth seeks to add more content to the dragon poems in light of the lack of new and fresh lines being added to the Eddas. More specifically, she wishes to make fresh lore. The last of her kind, she is the only keeper of her Edda. Even in death, she still writes on the Edda. With no prehensile hands to properly grasp any kind of writing instrument, her scribe Thrael writes it down for her.
Azorszos knows the bit of info regarding the wraith stuff in the Eldwurms' sagas, suggesting that he has read it himself or at least heard of it.
