Before time even began to flow, the four Fundamentals were once united in the Fundamental Plane where they were all bound to the great Primordial harmony created by the Elder Titan. When his hammer fell into the world, it caused a devastating effect on the early universe that split the Fundamental Plane open.  Keeper of the Light broke off from the other Fundamentals, including Enigma, who followed suit and escaped the primordial plane soon after. Although he is a destructive force unleashed upon existence, he is not so different from the other Fundamentals, who are all being hunted by Chaos Knight who seeks to reunite the Fundamentals back into their respective plane.
In some point in time, an ambitious alchemist named Cedric managed to acquire the journal of Jovat Kazran, an alchemist who became a Dark Fundamental. With great caution, he casted seventeen different spells that would summon Enigma, render him powerless, and unable to harm Cedric. Reciting a summoning incantation from Elze, he brought Enigma into the material plane. Not wanting to waste any time, Enigma immediately went in for the kill, but he was blocked by a magical forcefield. Realizing that he was powerless, Enigma decided to offer him political power and women, but he makes it clear that he grants no wishes.
While he refused all of Enigma's offers, Cedric demanded from him the secrets of the last page, which was essential to the spell that would ascend the caster into godhood. He also presented to him his latest invention: a pair of golden bracers that allowed the wielder to manipulate the fabric of spacetime. Such was its power that it would kill Cedric if he were to wear it in his current form, but not as a Fundamental. To control this power safely, he needed to complete the spell that will turn him into a Fundamental. And only Enigma has the answers to the mystery that would make Cedric into a god like him.
Convinced, Enigma told him to step into the field so that he may reveal to him the final step to godhood. Cedric refused and reiterated to him that he is still under his heel, but Enigma reveals that he was never affected by Cedric's spells and casually walks through the forcefield. As he slowly approaches the terrified alchemist, he taunts him about his foolishness and fulfills his wishes in an ironic manner by whispering to him the secrets that he wanted so badly, which drives him insane. While he undergoes a state of delirium, Enigma reveals to him the truth about the journals.
Aeons after his escape into the Seven Planes, Enigma made his existence known to the inhabitants of the material plane by fabricating dozens of fake journals made by an alchemist named "Jovat Kazran" and hid them in secret places for alchemists to discover. The journal contained a log of Kazran's studies of the four fundamental forces of the universe and his successful attempts at his ascension to a Dark Fundamental as well as the items necessary to become one. However, Enigma has intentionally left out the last page, which is supposed to contain the final step of a spell that turns the caster into a Dark Fundamental.  The last page doesn't actually exist, but this will only fuel the curiosity of those who seek Enigma's powers and force them turn to him for the mysteries of the last page.
He steals the World Chasm Artifact from Cedric and casually puts them on. However, he is no thief, so he holds up his end of the transaction by turning Cedric into an eidolon. With Cedric's dark ascension accomplished, he prepares his newfound recruit for the upcoming battle and puts his invention to the test.
Allies meeting Enigma
Enemies killing Enigma
Others
