The Frozen Arts is a brand of magic that allows its users to manipulate the cold elements of Icewrack, regardless of their distance from it.
No mere ice sorcery this. The Frozen Arts' source of power comes from the northern realm of Icewrack where cold temperatures can thrive the most. Magically anchored to the Frozen Wastes, users of this magic can call upon its elements: ice, cold winds, snow, etc. Not only can its users cool and freeze their surroundings, but they can even stop ice from melting.
Pugna claims that all sorceries have their source in the Nether Reaches. Aether (also known as void or nothingness) is an essential ingredient in the arts of the arcane, including the Frozen Arts.
Frostbite is a spell that channels cold winds from the Blueheart Glacier to an unlucky victim, trapping them in blocks of ice that are cold and hard as the legendary glacier itself.
One of the most powerful applications of the Frozen Arts,  Freezing Field summons the cold elements of Icewrack to ravage enemy ranks around the user.
Ice Wall (also known as Killing Wall of Koryx or Bitter Rampart) is a spell that creates a wall of ice which emits a chilling aura to slow down nearby victims. Based on its only known user, this spell invokes the White Waste, which is likely another title for the Frozen Wastes. This particular user's younger self invokes ice and storm to cast this spell, likely referring to the cold winds of Icewrack.
A single word incantation that recites "Snowdrop" was cast by Crystal Maiden after a year of deep meditation to master her powers in the Boiling Sea, surfacing from her meditation on one afternoon to recite this word, which momentarily froze the surrounding steam into ice and caused a temporary snowfall.
Crystal Maiden is the most notable user of this sorcery tradition. Under the instruction of the Ice Wizard, she learned the ways of the Frozen Arts to control her chaotic affinity to ice, allowing her to use both magic and her innate power to manipulate the cold.
Invoker may be a user of the Frozen Arts sorcery if his Ice Wall spell is connected to it. In this case, he may have learned a single spell from the Frozen Arts to add to his Arcanery.
