Gallaron (also known as the Dark Magus) is a character in the lore of Dota 2.
Long ago, Gallaron came across a settlement from Kalabor in the rainy lands west of it. Its settlers intended to claim the wildlands for the upcoming Kalaborian refugees fleeing Rhyzik and his forces. Although the invoker's reputation had not preceded him, his obvious skill in the arts of arcane quickly convinced the settlers of his authenticity. Soon after, he shared with them his plans of building a deadly labyrinth west of their camp, and they set to work spending their resources on it.
His labyrinth was established, filled to the brim with flame traps and other hazards. However, the settlers ran into budget problems, which Gallaron paid no mind. This was a detriment to the improvement of their settlement, as it had a poor defense against the Weald's hostile inhabitants.
The final boss of the Dark Moon event was a being called “The Dark Magus” with the same looks as Gallaron, suggesting that he was complicit in the attack on Selemene's temple.
In his youth, the  Invoker learned Gallaron's  Chaos Meteor alongside the nine other spells he currently wields, using two Exort orbs and Wex orb to invoke this spell for casting.
Gallaron employed the Kalabor settlers to build his maze, allocating most of their resources on it instead of their camp. They know him as Gallaron, but not by his other name.
Gallaron's Quas Wex Exports sells a mysterious treasure,  Gallaron's Gamble, that has a chance to give a nice gift or a deadly surprise.
It's heavily implied that Gallaron is a quasi-immortal like Invoker, since the ancient Invoker learned his meteor spell as a youth and yet Gallaron is still alive today.
Like the Invoker, Gallaron must've had this power to  Invoke spells and the energies of  Exort and  Wex. Otherwise, he would not be able to use his  Chaos Meteor (also known as Gallaron's Abyssal Carnesphere, Tarak's Descent of Fire, or Voidal Pyroclasm), invoked via 2 Exort and 1 Wex. He seems to have  Quas too, since it orbits his model.
A simple but cataclysmic spell, this celestial power tears a flaming meteor from outer space, crashing it down to the earth and destroying all in its path.
