

Carl the Invoker is the one of the few remaining magicians who still practices the ancient sorcery of Invoke, allowing him to harness not one, but all three elements of Quas, Wex, and Exort as well any magic he deigns to learn through sheer will, intelligence, and memory.

Among the earliest practitioners of magic in its most potent and ancient form, there was a child prodigy named Carl. Such was his intellect and memory that he could master more than four spells—the highest amount of spells that a devoted wizard could hope to master with the most of their brainpower. He was enrolled in the long-established Ultimyr Academy that honed his already impressive skills in magic. The young Carl excelled at every curricular task given to him and basked in the praise given for being so competent, but he dreamt of a future where he answered to no one but himself, where he could freely use his growing powers.


Among the earliest practitioners of magic in its most potent and ancient form, there was a child prodigy named Carl. Such was his intellect and memory that he could master more than four spells—the highest amount of spells that a devoted wizard could hope to master with the most of their brainpower. He was enrolled in an ancient wizard's renowned academy for the mystic arts that honed his already impressive skills in magic. The young Carl excelled at every curricular task given to him and basked in the praise given for being so competent, but he dreamt of a future where he answered to no one but himself, where he could freely use his growing powers.

The blurb for The Good Old Days voice pack says that the long years of his nigh-immortal life have taken an unimaginable toll on his personality. The detriments that happened in those years might've been the reason why he is drastically different from his younger self.
In the early days after his escape from the academia, Carl sought to test his growing skills by any means attainable. He found a great opportunity for adventure and trials in the field of battle and answered the call to war, becoming a battle mage.
There was once an age where fear and superstition surrounded sorcery and its practitioners. Tales were told of the Invoker, a powerful and oppressive wizard who would destroy those without the gifts of magic. Such was his ferocity that it had a powerful effect on the reputation of the magical arts during that time.
Carl may have once joined the Burning Cabal faction, a group of invokers who specialize in fire manipulation and favor Exort over all other magical disciplines.
In Dota: Dragon's Blood, the Invoker is one of the main protagonists of the series. A nameless Elven sage, the Invoker lives as a stoic but wise recluse in his tower which is filled to the brim with magic, causing it to be invisible to all but those with a gifted sight or magic items that grant supernatural vision.
Tales among the "moon children" speak of a sage who is said to have the power to bring back the true goddess Mene who dwells in the magical lotuses in the pools of Selemene's Temple. A young but determined Elven youth named Fymryn is determined to meet this man and fulfill the prophecy, setting the series' events into motion towards a fate of cosmic proportions where Heaven and Hell clash beyond their boundaries, a fate that she never intended to achieve.
To see the full involvement of the Invoker in this series, please check the page for Dota: Dragon's Blood episodes and their plot. At the end, he was sentenced to life imprisonment on Foulfell after his defeat.
The young Carl claims to know  Warlock's great great...great ancestor. Given that Demnok and Carl have both been to Ultimyr Academy, he may actually be referring to Demnok's ancestor that he may have met in his ancient academy.
Among Carl's many names throughout the aeons,  Rubick knew him in a time when he used to be called the "Arsenal Magus".
Puck has some knowledge of Carl, claiming to remember him from a distant past. This says much about Invoker's age.
Undying and  Queen of Pain are some of the few who know him enough to call him by his true name of power, Carl.  Mirana is also one of the few who knows him by the name of Carl, but this might just be a pun on his name rather than something related to the lore.
According to Dark Willow's gossip,  Axe and  Anti-Mage want to beat up Carl. The former can be seen in a card art for the spinoff game Artifact.
While Carl is best known for his immense spell casting capabilities, he would never have that power in the first place if he lacked the sheer intellect to wield it. Carl is so intelligent that the effects of a hood that magically boosts one's intellect are wasted on him, for he already possesses high mental capacity beyond what the hood's power can bring. His mind was powerful enough to charge a tattered and faded set of solar themed clothing to life, revealing its true brilliant form when he put them on.
Alongside the Grand Magus, Carl was able to see the mysteries that the  Templar Assassin vowed to protect. A rogue aspect of  Spectre says that he could almost "see".
Carl is one of the few quasi-immortals who have mastered a potent and ancient form of magic lost to the ages. Although his magic doesn't seem to have an official name, the spells that he casts are known as Invocations. This should mean that  Invoke is his brand of magic, according to his younger self.
Invoke is a unique spell casting system that heavily relies on the caster's memory to be effective. This is the full process of using Invoke, including the procurement of spells. Note that the following only applies to how Carl uses this magic, and not others who may use it as well.
As unique as it is from other kinds of magic, it still requires mana as a resource for casting its spells. Aether (also known as void or nothingness) is an essential ingredient in the arts of the arcane, including Carl's magic.
Alongside his Invoke magic, Carl has three elemental orbs that he uses alongside Invoke to cast spells, manipulate the elements, and use their metaphysical properties such as the "strength" of fire and the "fortitude" of ice.
Quas allows for manipulation of ice elements. Besides the elements, it also grants him bonus regeneration, but it's not clear if it restores either health or mana only or both, since he has likened his Quas to a Regeneration Rune. Quas may act as a catalyst that boosts the properties of his spells that rely on Quas to be invoked. However, it hasn't been acknowledged in the lore yet.
Wex allows for manipulation of storm elements. It also grants additional speed in both movement and combat. It's possible that Wex acts as a catalyst that increases the speed or movement properties of spells that require Wex. As of now, this is just gameplay mechanics, but given how some gameplay elements are acknowledged or translated into the lore, it might be a good possibility.
Exort allows for manipulation of fire elements. It also increases the damage of the user, but the bonus is implied to cost something, at least according to his younger self. It may be said that Exort's damage boosting properties are catalysts that affect the power of spells that rely on Exort when invoked, but so far, this has not been acknowledged in Dota 2's lore yet.
Runes are said to be forged of the most fundamental magic. If the young Carl claims that he can sense his orbs' powers in these runes, then his orbs may have something to do with the creation of runes. Furthermore, it may even be said that Quas, Wex, and Exort could be the fundamental magic that creates these runes.

These spells are currently in Carl's mental Arcanery, where he can quickly access them from his mind and memory for him to cast.

 Cold Snap is invoked when using three instances of Quas. The spell is also known as "Sadron's Protracted Frisson". If Vancian magic rules were used, then "Sadron" should be the creator of this spell. No mere freezing magic, this cantrip does not directly freeze the opponent in ice like most spells, but rather saps the heat from their body and freezes them as a consequence instead.

 Ghost Walk is invoked when using two instances of Quas and one instance of Wex. It is also known as "Myrault's Hinder-Gast" or "Geist of Lethargy". A rule of Vancian magic would dictate that "Myrault" would be the creator of this spell. Based on its lore, the names of this spell, and its effects in gameplay, the cantrap renders Carl invisible by controlling the ice and electrical energies to create an elemental imbalance that slows both him and anyone within his proximity.

 Ice Wall is invoked when using two instances of Quas and one instance of Exort. It is also known as "Killing Wall of Koryx" or "Bitter Rampart". If the rules of Vancian sorcery are to be applied, then "Koryx" would be the spell's creator. This spell simply creates a wall of ice that emanates a bitter aura of debilitating cold. When casting this spell, Carl may call upon the White Waste, which is likely another name for the Frozen Wastes. His younger self states that he invokes ice (Quas) and storm (Wex) when he uses this magic, which contradicts the elemental combo meant for this spell.
E.M.P. is invoked when using three instances of Wex. E.M.P. stands for Extractive Mana Pulse, but it still retains its original meaning: electromagnetic pulse. It is also known as either "Endoleon's Malevolent Perturbation" or "Shimare's Extractive Pulse". With the rules of Vancian magic, the creator would either have to be "Endoleon" or "Shimare". The spell will cause a charge of electromagnetic energy that depletes the mana of those caught in the blast.

 Tornado is invoked when using two instances of Wex and one instance of Quas. Also known as "Claws of Tornarus". A rule of Vancian magic would imply that "Tornarus" is the true creator of the spell. When cast, it unleashes a fast moving tornado that forcefully throws victims into the air to whirl and suspend helplessly for a few moments. The tornado's wind will then dissipate, allowing the affected to fall to their demise.

 Alacrity is invoked when using two instances of Wex and one instance of Exort. Alacrity is also known as "Zeal of Wexort" or "Gaster's Mandate of Impetuous Strife". This battle spell was made in the Age of Gaster to solve the predicament of mages being unable to properly face well-armed opponents in close quarters. Once it's cast, it infuses the target with an immense surge of energy that boosts their combat speed and increases their damage.

 Sun Strike is invoked when using three instances of Exort. It's also known as "Harlek's Incantation of Incineration". However, according to the Magus Apex, the spell comes from the Sol Apex Incantation. When cast, it focuses a powerful ray of solar energy from the sun to a targeted location, incinerating anything caught in its wake. Lorewise, Carl does not really see where this spell hits when he casts it too far from him, so he must rely on prediction to hit enemies that are out of his line of sight.
Forge Spirit is invoked when using two instances of Exort and one instance of Quas. It is also known as "Culween's Most Cunning Fabrications". Rules of Vancian sorceries imply that "Culween" is the spell's creator. When cast, it summons a fiery elemental/s that embodies the strength of fire from Exort and the fortitude of ice from Quas. This flame elemental has a  Melting Strike that can melt through enemy armor. His younger self summons a dragon hatchling with the same powers.
Chaos Meteor is invoked when using two instances of Exort and one instance of Wex. Chaos Meteor's other names are "Voidal Pyroclasm", "Tarak's Descent of Fire", and "Gallaron's Abyssal Carnesphere". Vancian magic rules dictate that either "Tarak" or "Gallaron" would be the maker of this spell. When cast, Carl will pull a meteor from space and send it unto the target location, causing the meteor to burn up into a flaming projectile. It will devastate the target area upon landing, before rolling forward to crush and incinerate anything in its wake until it crumbles. This spell, alongside his tall ornate pauldrons, are proof that Invoker's power can even reach the realm of outer space.


These spells have already been cast by him once and then permanently removed from his memory by Carl to make room for more spells. Some of these spells still have an effect on him up to the present day.

The Sempiternal Cantrap is the source of Carl's immortality. This longevity spell is said to be so powerful that those who casted it in the world's earliest days can live long enough to the present age. This is quite vague, but we can at least estimate Carl's age by some of his voice lines: his younger self recognizes  Broodmother who has lived for many untold centuries and he knows the Mo'rokai before they were made dormant for centuries. Therefore, this spell is powerful enough to preserve Carl for many centuries. It is also stated that the user cannot die unless they have been crushed into atoms, but it is unknown if this means invulnerability, regeneration, or resurrection.

Allies meeting Invoker
Enemies meeting Invoker
Enemies killing Invoker
Others
