Jakiro, the Twin Headed Dragon, is a polycephalic Pyrexae dragon with the powers of ice and fire as their birthright. His very birth was an anomaly among the Pyrexae, because he was hatched from a single egg with two heads sharing a single body. Defying the very process that ensures the strength of the Pyrexae species, Jakiro is shunned as an anathema among his race and even hunted down by his own kin, with dragonslayers making his life much harder.
But his race did not consider that Jakiro himself was a true testament to the Pyrexae's strengths. Although a single Pyrexae has a powerful affinity to a single element, Jakiro can wield the full range of every ability found in the diverse Pyrexae species with great synergy. With such power contained in a one in a million, no foe is safe as the elements combine in Jakiro to render his enemies into an unrecognizable mess of ice crystals and blackened flesh.
Born from the flesh of a mother Eldwurm and an unknown father, the dragon freak Jakiro hatches from a single egg with two heads, one burning with the rage of the fiery Pyrexae lineage and another freezing with the guile of the icy Pyrexae lineage. Shunned and sometimes hunted by his race for being an anomaly among the wise but fearsome Pyrexae, Jakiro relies on his duality of powers and traits to destroy all manner of beings and creatures who dare to project any hostility towards him.
Among the Mer folk, there are tales of a "twin headed demon" that killed a raiding party (save for two survivors) consisting of the finest Slithereen warriors in the waters surrounding the cliffs of Grosche. Their warnings speak of the demon that protected the bluffs of Grosche. When the party of raiders encroached upon the dragon's territory at night, Jakiro's fire head attacked the party, but they managed to find safety within their own element of the sea. However, his frost head froze the invaders atop the waves that should have protected them. The two remaining survivors could only watch as Jakiro's fiery head incinerated the oblivious raiders.
Jakiro once descended into the underground caverns of the Riverwarren to protect its inhabitants during a time of great need. Since that day, his appearance and deeds are always commemorated in the Day of the Pyres where stories and celebrations of their protector are told and held, respectively. As the children grow up, their dreams of the dragon's return fade with time, but one day Jakiro will return to help the people of the caverns once more.
According to Jakiro,  Winter Wyvern is his cousin. However, Auroth seems to have an animosity towards him, and expresses regret that she didn't kill them before they have hatched. Valve writer Steve Jaros confirmed that Auroth is indeed his mother.
As said in his bio, the Pyrexae are magical beasts. A statement from Wei expands on this feature, where she says that Jakiro is brimming with magic.
An interesting detail can be found in Jakiro's right head. The scales on his lower neck resemble that of his mother's, Auroth the Winter Wyvern. It can be speculated that his right head inherited some of Auroth's ice powers alongside the powers of the icy Pyrexae heritage.
Possessing the full range of abilities found in the Pyrexae dragon species, Jakiro commands the elements of ice and fire just by breathing. His twin headed nature and elemental duality grants him the ability to synergize his naturally incompatible elements to deadly effect.
Dual Breath is a great example of his elemental synergy. Jakiro's frost head initiates the attack with a blast of ice, followed by a wave of fire launched by his fiery head. It would seem that neither elements cancel each other out, allowing its victims to take the full effect of being frozen and burnt at the same time.
Ice Path is a very simple ability. Jakiro's frost head calls upon the cold element of his Pyrexae lineage to create a trail of ice that freezes anyone caught in its wake.
Yet another simple and straightforward ability, his  Liquid Fire comes from the fiery head of Jakiro, allowing him to expel a scorching molten substance. It can be speculated that this hot material is the same molten steel found in the guts of Pyrexae who consume even the armor and equipment of slain knights.
His  Liquid Frost lacks any kind of lore text, but it can be assumed that it works similarly to its fiery counterpart, except for the use of molten steel. Liquid Frost could simply be a cold substance that chills and freezes opponents covered in it.
Although his  Macropyre only shows his flames being used, the lore text for this ability describes that Jakiro combines its frost and flame to decimate the battlefield with extreme temperatures on both high and low ends. This can be seen in the custom  Macropyre effect of his Pyrexaec Forge cosmetic where the cracks on the earth glow blue (presumably his ice powers) while his fire burns on top of it, neither elements being able to cancel each other out.
Allies meeting Jakiro
Enemies meeting Jakiro
Enemies killing Jakiro
Enemies dying to Jakiro
Others
