Jex is the pet wisp of Mireska, the  Dark Willow. It is a spherical being, pink with two arms and two wings, and its skull-shaped face is adorned on top with what appears to be a crystal. Its body consists of folds or ribs that expand and contract as it moves. Jex accompanied Mireska out of Revtel after she burned down her family estate. Like Mireska, Jex is considered a wanted criminal for its actions.
A malevolent being from the Fae Realm, Jex is fond of murder, attacking his victims with bouts of arcane energy, as well as terrorizing them into submission. Along with its owner, Jex enjoys mischief and shenanigans. Traveling in its cage, Jex has seen all the places Mireska has been to, such as Quoidge.
Jex is Mireska's closest companion, and will do her bidding as well as protect her from harm. Although it does not appear to speak, it is nonetheless able to communicate with Mireska through unknown means. Otherwise, Jex is a sentient being with its own interests, capable of hatching plots, arguing with Mireska over kills and items, and even lecturing its owner about her failures.
Mireska believes Jex is her friend, but does not appear to fully trust it. Perhaps for this reason, Jex is kept in a cage, and becomes enraged when it is rattled. Upon seeing  Viper, the  Netherdrake that freed itself by killing its captor  Pugna, Mireska warns Jex not to entertain similar notions of freedom.
Despite their similar appearance, Jex does not seem to be related to  Io, although there is some indication that Io likes Jex.
