The Juggernaut tradition of the Isle of Masks is a long-standing tradition of both swordsmanship and magic. Once common yet exclusive among the Masked Ones, the submerging of their homeland has left none of its practitioners alive, save for one particular anathema among them who survives now as the sole practitioner of this rare art.
Those who are well versed in the Juggernaut tradition are both talented swordsmen and voodoo practitioners. Practitioners of the art see no dishonor in healing and regeneration.
Blade Fury is a simple technique where the user spins their sword around them to slash at nearby enemies. In this state, the user will repel incoming magic, leaving them unharmed and unaffected. Yurnero's use of this technique has made it renowned and feared by warriors and sorcerers alike. It can easily cut through  Broodmother's strong webs and it is complimented by  Battle Fury, although this might just be a reference to gameplay.
Omnislash focuses on pure swiftness. The user will leap towards a target and slash them with imperceptible swiftness, leaping around them or towards nearby targets after each of the strikes they land successfully in a dance of swords.
A portable  Healing Ward can be summoned by a ritual. The ward heals others' wounds with its voodoo magic. Even after the drowning of the Isle of Masks, the healing arts haven't lost any of its potency.
Among the extinct race of the Masked Ones, Yurnero the  Juggernaut is the last and most notable practitioner of this art. Having named himself after the tradition to represent its last practician, he is commited to preserving the Juggernaut tradition with each blow of his blade to ensure that the style is well remembered.
Mars seems to be familiar enough with the style to comment on its unoriginality.
