Yurnero the Juggernaut, named after the martial tradition that he swore to preserve and protect, is the last of his masked kind who drowned beneath the waves that deluged the ancient Isle of Masks. While his inanimate mask bears no readable expressions, each motion of his blade arm is an expression of a lost art that yearns to be remembered, and every ritual that he casts alone is but a shadow of the Isle's once lively and rich traditions.
Yurnero had to earn his skill to become the master swordsman that he is today. He once trained under the tutelage of his late swordmaster (of whom we don't know the name of) until he became a swordmaster just like him. His master rewarded him with a traditional hakama and the sword Akakiryu which got its name from a legendary dragon.
Long ago, Yurnero took it to himself to retrieve the Defender, a greatsword that stolen from the Ivory Isles. He slew its thieves and now wields the Defender with honor.
Yurnero is a successful hunter with many kills under his belt, including demons and abominations, with a few of them possessing an alien hunting intellect. He was noted to have slain a brave beast with large tusks in a fierce battle and killed a mountain wolf with open handed strikes. He may have slain a single member of the now extinct corodont species, carving a mask out of its ivory heart.
Although the original account tells us that Yurnero was exiled and banished to sea for his defiance against a high lord, there is another account of Yurnero's banishment. Upon his exile, he was fitted with a mask that symbolized his status as a Ronin with no master to guide him, which differed in appearance from his default mask that we are all familiar with.
It's implied that Yurnero's exile happened for another reason besides his defiance against a corrupt lord. The context behind his insubordination was that he may have been complicit in defending the dishonored unmasked outcasts of the Isle of Masks. These wretched folk got their punishment from violating a creed or another. Their retribution was to be stripped of their honor and masks, and cast away from the reaches of society so that they may never again influence the affairs of the Isle. Defending these people even in the face of highborn defiance will elicit exile away from the Isle itself, the very same fate that Yurnero was inflicted with.
Juggernaut's mask after being cracked by the Adjudicator's Blade.

In an unspecified event, possibly a duel, Sven cleaved Yurnero's mask in two with the Adjudicator's Blade, cracking its top and awakening the ancestral souls that laid dormant inside it. Among the spirits was an ancient dragon, who now accompanies Yurnero and contributes his powers to him. Thus, the Juggernaut became a being merged from many souls. The dragon's might, combined with the great strength of his ancestors, made him more powerful than ever before. Yurnero and his dragon are grateful for Sven's actions, and feel they owe Sven a debt of gratitude.
After the sundering, the Juggernaut and his dragon planned to restore what they have lost. Once the Ancient is destroyed, they vowed to bring back their people and begin the rebirth of the Isle of Masks.
Yurnero is the latest and last issue of an ancient lineage of revered warriors who are the progenitors of the Isle of Masks. Most of these lost souls were masked people like him, but he also had a dragon spirit among his ancestors as well.
Long ago, Yurnero used to train frequently with the  Ember Spirit. Their training sessions together always produced interesting results. He has great respect for Xin, even if they are pitted against each other.
Phantom Lancer is an old friend of Yurnero's. As a pair of Radiant Heroes aligned against the Dire factions, they both know Kanna, and Yurnero may ask Azwraith about rumors regarding Kanna's return.
Yurnero once had a romantic relationship with the  Templar Assassin, but the two broke up after he did something to upset her. Although he appears to have moved on already, he will still mourn her, even after he has lost control over his body when the many spirits in his mask took over and possessed him, who will also share his grief despite them not being familiar with her at all. Lanaya still feels jilted and hasn't gotten over the breakup. She is quite angry at Yurnero, to the extent of threatening violence, and attempting to make him jealous.
The death of Yurnero by  Mars' hand signifies the completion of his uncle's collection. It's unknown who among his uncles, Hades or Poseidon, are collecting the likes of Yurnero, not to mention that the context of this situation is unknown.
Yurnero is concerned about Sorla Khan's violent campaign. He wishes to discuss a solution to the problem with  Axe.
Yurnero owns a wide variety of swords, but it's possible that he acquired his many swords in separate continuities rather than accumulating a large arsenal. If one looks for a similarity within all of his weapons, one can notice that he always prefers to use two handed swords such as a katana or anything similar over any kind of weapon.
Although he usually wields one sword at a time during battle, he is also prepared with a backup blade, just in case his primary weapon isn't enough.
Within Yurnero is the last remnants of the Isle's many martial traditions. He is the sole practitioner of the long standing Juggernaut tradition, a lost art that consists of bladework and voodoo magic rituals. When gripping a sword in battle, he always makes sure that each refined strike that he lands takes his passion, intentionality, and respect into consideration. He is skilled and confident enough to safely wield a blade with no guard, which is dangerous because the guard prevents the hand from slipping towards the blade when thrusting as well protecting the hand from any incoming blade that slides down to the wielder's hands.
He is well known for his skills with the sword during battle, but he is still quite dangerous when unarmed, being able to kill a mountain wolf with only open-handed strikes.
All of Yurnero's abilities are applications of the Juggernaut tradition.
Blade Fury is a simple technique where the user spins their sword around them to slash at nearby enemies. In this state, the user will repel incoming magic, leaving them unharmed and unaffected. Yurnero's use of this technique has made it renowned and feared by warriors and sorcerers alike. It can easily cut through the Broodmother's strongest webs and it is complimented by  Battle Fury, although this might just be a reference to gameplay.
A portable  Healing Ward can be summoned by a ritual. The ward heals others' wounds with its voodoo magic. Even after the drowning of the Isle of Masks, the healing arts haven't lost any of its potency.
Blade Dance's lore describes how the Juggernaut tradition is a heritage, a long standing art passed down to many generations to be committed to the ways of the sword. He alone strives to preserve the lasting tradition of the Isles.
Swiftslash has no lore.
Omnislash focuses on pure swiftness. The user will leap towards a target and slash them with imperceptible swiftness, leaping around them or towards nearby targets after each of the strikes they land successfully in a dance of swords.
Allies meeting Juggernaut
Enemies meeting Juggernaut
Enemies killing Juggernaut
Others
