Upon a pale horse he rides, this spark of ancient suns. Ezalor, the Keeper of the Light, rides forth from the shattered Primordial harmony to bring the gift of life and light throughout the many corners of the vast universe, while remaining one step ahead from the ancient forces of chaos and darkness.
A force of the universe that has grown sentient in the dawn of time, he embodies and identifies himself as the weak nuclear force, a fundamental force that is unique among the others with its transmutative capabilities on the subatomic level (compared to the other forces which are attractive and repulsive) as well as the ability to manipulate magic and its very essence.
Before time even began to flow, the fundamental laws of the universe were all bound together by the great Primordial harmony in the far and upstream Fundamental Plane made by the One we know as Elder Titan. At the dawn of the universe, these inanimate forces gained the gift of sentience and expression through unexplained means. With the capacity to feel and think, the spark of ancient suns came to be known as Ezalor, the Keeper of the Light, and the four Fundamentals were born. Soon after, the Primordial harmony was broken (either by Ezalor with his ability to disrupt harmony or Elder Titan who caused the Schism) and the sentient Fundamentals were set loose into the many planes of the fragmented world left behind by their creator.
Ezalor frequently mentions that he is on a quest, but the goal of this quest and why he partakes in it is currently unknown. He also claims to originate from a place known as Light's Keep, where he also returns to when he dies before riding out once more.
Ezalor created and took on the mantle of the one who brought light to every corner of the universe and keeping darkness and chaos at bay with his powers over light and order, but abandoned this role soon after (likely due to the Chaos Knight doggedly chasing after him) leaving it to be taken up by anyone who wishes to continue his work.
But it was under this mantle that Ezalor was in his prime, and he was in his prime when he was still the spark of ancient suns. Wielding a radiant staff, he channeled his powers to create the very first sun in the universe, a sentient and conscious beacon of light that can reproduce through supernova, resulting in an endless cycle of birth and rebirth. The first sun was the primogenitor of every sun and star in the universe, including the likes of Phoenix and Dawnbreaker
Although he could give life to conscious stars, he can create lifeforms as well. In the earliest days following his exodus from the Fundamental Plane, Ezalor channeled his power to create a winged horse that inherited his gift, allowing it to aid his work in sparking suns to life.
His work soon came to an end when the Chaos Knight set his sights upon him and chased after his fugitive brother who was said to have defied the first covenant when he escaped the Fundamental Plane. Ezalor was forced to abandon his work in response to the pressing danger at hand and left the mantle with no one around to give it to, until it was taken up by his grandchildren aeons later.
Aeons later, Ezalor assumed a cunning disguise in the form of a doddering old man, a true outward embodiment of the fundamental force that is his identity. He has been observed appearing in different guises: a fortune teller, a wizard, and even a sage, but there are none so well documented as his guise of the Keeper of the Northlight.
Legends from the remote frigid villages of the Wailing Mountains speak of a hooded old man who travels in the cold Northern wastes, appearing only to those who have lost their way and when evil or darkness makes its presence known in those lands. Upon a grey stag he rides, bearing the light of the famous North Star that has helped countless travelers to find their way, while banishing evil and darkness when he finds them.
Ezalor is one of the few heroes in Dota 2 that has children of his own. All the stars and suns in the universe are his children, including  Phoenix,  Dawnbreaker, and her creators, the Children of Light, who are all descendants of the Keeper's first sun. Dawnbreaker is humbled by the presence of her great grandfather but she is also saddened that he did not do anything to save the Children of Light nor did he know about the fates that they chose. She is even furious at him for abandoning his descendants.
The Solar Goddess, a divine figure whom  Lina worships, is a dilution of a greater lineage of star progeny (as in the stars and suns themselves) which includes the Dawnbreaker and her creators, the Children of Light. This would imply that the Solar Goddess is also a very distant descendant of Ezalor and his first sun.
Since  Mars is the lover of Dawnbreaker, Ezalor would be his great grandfather-in-law. Mars seems to be deeply concerned about how he treated the Children of Light and why he abandoned them.
Ezalor is the younger brother and antithesis to the  Chaos Knight, who has been hunting him down ever since the exodus of the Fundamentals from their progenitor realm. The Chaos Knight claims that he seeks to destroy all order and creation as well snuff out the Light from every plane of existence but he belies an ulterior motive where he truly seeks to reunite his siblings back into the Fundamental Plane.
Like all Fundamentals, they are the children of the Elder Titan. That includes the two omnipresent forces  Io and  Enigma.
Besides the Chaos Knight, Ezalor has been in some in-fighting with the children of the Schism. Enigma is hostile towards Ezalor, as he embodies the very force that causes a star to collapse on itself and die, turning it into a black hole. In Dota Underlords, Enigma also plans to replace him with  Tiny, for reasons unknown.
Ezalor is a Fundamental, a fundamental law of the universe that has gained sentient expression at the dawn of the universe's creation. It is currently unknown how Ezalor and his Fundamental brothers managed to become sentient beings, and it's even more mysterious if they got their sentience by themselves or someone/something else. He originates from a higher plane of existence known as the Fundamental Plane where they were once united as one force in/by the great Primordial harmony, which was either disrupted by Ezalor or shattered by his creator, allowing him to separate from the other ancient forces that he was once bound with.
Like all Fundamentals and their creator, Ezalor is an omnipresent force that exists in all planes at once, allowing him to call upon other versions or aspects of himself to assist each other. Like his brother Chaos Knight who uses it to summon phantasms from other worlds, or Enigma who uses it to summon aspects of himself from other dimensions, Ezalor can utilize this omnipresence to summon a separate spirit to channel his abilities for him.
Ezalor embodies the weak nuclear force, in contrast to his brother who embodies the strong nuclear force. The weak force is best known for being responsible for several kinds of radioactive decay, one of which is responsible for the process between subatomic particles that causes stars and suns to burn. With this power, Ezalor has sparked the heat of countless stars, lighting up every corner of the universe and gifting the sun's radiance to the distant worlds that find comfort from its rays, while allowing them to go and multiply via supernova to further extend the cycle of life. He also used his force to make sentient lifeforms, such as winged horses that inherit his powers, which means that the weak force can be used to create life as well.
Hidden underneath the guise of an old man on a pale horse, Ezalor's true light manifests from his radiant staff or until he reveals it from beneath his outward appearance.
Illuminate is a rather straightforward ability. Ezalor simply channels a burst of light from his radiant staff and releases it at the right moment to unleash a large wave of light. The internal glow of his staff is said to fill the souls of the innocent with tranquility while relieving them of their pain (likely flowery language that explains Illuminate's healing ability) but the wicked cannot bear the weight of this light.
Ezalor's  Mana Leak is a good example of the weak nuclear force being integrated into his gameplay and his lore. By disrupting the so-called "Primordial harmony", Ezalor can cause those with poor constitution to uncontrollably drain their own magical energy. It is unknown if  Solar Bind operates under the same lore of the ability that it has replaced (besides being similar in terms of gameplay) since the spell was released without a lore description.
Chakra Magic is one of Ezalor's most vague abilities. Lorewise, the skill is said to be Ezalor bestowing his "harmony" (likely referring to the Primordial harmony that's frequently mentioned in Ezalor's lore) upon others to restore their magical energy. Ezalor mentions chakra, kundalini, and the serpent of illumination when using this ability, but it's not yet known how these concepts relate to his powers.
Just like his first spell,  Blinding Light is also a straightforward ability. It is simply a short blast of intense light that may threaten to blind those who look directly towards it.
Will-O-Wisp is an interesting ability, as not only does Ezalor call upon the wisp Ignus Fatuus to aid him, but its lore description states that Ezalor has an uncanny influence over many powerful creatures that are always willing to help him even if he doesn't seem to be familiar with them. Basically, Ezalor can call upon creatures such as wisps to aid him and they will always answer his call, even if he forgets who they are. As for the capabilities of this wisp in the lore, it is currently unknown if we do not take gameplay mechanics into the question.
Recall is yet another one of Ezalor's vague abilities, due to its obscure description. It can be speculated that this ability works similarly to Io's  Relocate (lorewise) for the two following reasons:
Lastly,  Spirit Form is what happens when Ezalor sheds his mortal guise, allowing him to reveal the power that he truly embodies.
Allies meeting Keeper of the Light
Enemies killing Keeper of the Light
Enemies dying to Keeper of the Light
Others
