Leshrac, the Tormented Soul, is the elemental guardian of the evil truth of all creation beyond our benighted comprehension. With the elements of nature and the Chronoptic energies of nature's blasted core at his beck and call, the pristine natural world will soon mirror its horrifying counterpart as he ushers it to chaos, decay, and suffering.
Leshrac often speaks of a state of utter chaos, which he seeks to achieve by tipping the balance of our world. In order to topple the balance of this world, he must bring the most indiscriminate desolation to this world and its inhabitants. He achieves this by blighting nature itself, twisting it into a blasted world (just like its blasted core) and utilizing whatever resource he has for the purpose of achieving imbalance. Those who are unfortunate enough to be sentient and animate are destroyed alongside the world that they dwell in, plus they are treated with a trip to the heart of all existence to see the unpleasant truth of nature, alongside other twisted intentions that Leshrac has in store. He also states that he must restore this state of imbalance, implying that it has already existed before and he is merely bringing it back.
There are several reasons that motivate him to do all of these awful stuff. First of all, this Tormented Soul feels compelled to share his torment to others. Not only by inflicting suffering to those who cross his path, but by unlocking the innate torment that everyone has within them by enlightening them with the horrible truth of nature—the very same way he realized that his whole existence is a torment. However, what really drives him to do such foul deeds is his thirst for dark knowledge. Still unsated from learning the horrifying mystery at the heart of nature that altered him into the being that he is today, Leshrac desires an "end to it all" which he believes may allow him to learn this worse mysteries hidden by the Impurities at the heart of existence.
Perhaps this is what motivates him to participate in the war of the Ancients. Should he fail, he will be sentenced to what might possibly be a state of never-ending torment.
Leshrac is the self-proclaimed guardian of the Impurities. On some occasions, he gives them tithes of gold for unknown reasons. It is also unknown what use do the Impurities have for gold. He invokes the Impurities with his actions, possibly to show his devotion to them. Lastly, he seeks an "end to it all" which he believes will allow him to learn the worse mysteries that they hide.
Leshrac swears allegiance or subservience to no one. Thus he serves no higher power or entity other than nature itself.
Grimstroke considers it a waste to kill Leshrac, because he had plans to recruit him to his side. What he plans to do alongside the nihilistic elemental is currently unknown.
This evil nihilistic creature is disliked and reviled by many people. By his own word, he is a mass murderer and may have committed genocide.
Leshrac once did something to a woman acquainted with  Pangolier, angering him greatly. While Donté let him live at that time, he swore an oath to kill Leshrac in revenge, if he ever saw him again. It's interesting to note that Leshrac's nihilism, which encompasses torment and suffering, clashes against Donté's hedonism.
Hoodwink doesn't like Leshrac. She seems to be familiar with his kind and is surprised to see him besides the others that she has met, and she has a very bad relationship with an unnamed female character who will get mad at her for killing Leshrac.
Leshrac's previous form from when he was still a philosopher is unknown, but a remnant of his former appearance can be still be seen in his current form. His face is a good indicator of what he used to be–his most notable facial features are his wide, flat nose and blank yellow eyes–features that can be seen on the Oglodi people. It's also worth noting that the Oglodi were once an intellectual race consisting of esoteric artists and philosophers, the latter of whom Leshrac was possibly a part of given his background.
Transformed into an evil elemental by the horrifying mystery at the heart of nature, Leshrac is at one with this lurid and vile nature. His form resembles that of a Centaur's body, but its features are twisted and unnatural. Stony outgrowths form his weird looking antlers and the shoulder growths on his equine torso. Unlike the front legs of a horse and other ungulates his front legs have can bend towards and away from his body. He has three-toed hooves and there are runic markings all over his form, of which we know nothing about its meaning. A liminal being, he exists half in the material plane and half in its heart. His body emits a faint glow at all times. Like the horses and other similar ungulates that his form is based from, he may sometimes paw the ground in his idle animation.
His physical form bears host to the same Chronoptic Crystals that allowed him to see the heart of all reality. These crystals jut out of his back, his shoulders, and the back of his skull by default. They are pink or purple in color, and may be the source of his Chronoptic power. The crystals on the back of his head may multiply and grow even longer, replacing his own antlers. These woeful spires are nourished by the waves of Chronoptic energy that passes through his warped mind.
This unnatural form can be warped further by his manifest will. For example, Leshrac's agonizing insights can manifest beyond the mind and onto his body, causing them to burst from deep within. These painful insights manifest as spiky outgrowths that burst out of his flesh, sharing the agony of his mind to the body as well. Leshrac's anguish, black thoughts and foul deeds have made him the host of an evil growth of vines, a twisted kind of wisdom that feeds and thrives off of those three aspects of Leshrac.
A sip of the tainted waters from his nature has irreparably corrupted his body with a motley of unnatural vegetative mutations. The corruption has caused a growth of branches on his arms, which he uses to channel great power through them. There is an unnatural growth of stone-hard fungus on his shoulders and back, and his tail has been transformed into a weapon that "pulses desolation" probably referring to his Pulse Nova. The effect has reached his curved horns as well, which permanently corrupts the souls of anyone who touches them.
It's interesting to notice that Leshrac's life can be learned through his death and rebirth. Just like all living creatures, Leshrac's heart holds a spark of life that will fade when he dies. But unlike other living creatures, the life that was given to him by the Impurities is unnatural, and thus even his death is unnatural. Perhaps, his death is unnatural to him since he is reviled by Death itself, a natural end to all living things. Or maybe death purifies impure entities like him because death ends his torment, an inherent impurity deeply rooted within him by the elements that compose him. However, his death isn't permanent, and he returns to the foulest heart of nature when he dies to reform himself.
From the heart of nature, the alignment of his elements are restored and the Impurities unite in him, restoring his form and his unnatural life.
We learn from this regeneration process that Leshrac is composed of the impure elements known as the Impurities, confirming his status as an elemental. We also learn that Leshrac is immortal because death doesn't send him to the afterlife (e.g. the Underscape, the Seven Hells, the heavens, etc.) like any other being. He is reviled and rejected by Death for being so unnatural, thus he is sent back to his cloister at the heart of nature instead when he dies before restoring his life and physical form from there.
Outside of his gameplay abilities, Leshrac's elemental powers seem to focus on debasing the forms of other beings until they are reduced to their fundamental elements. He may also rid other beings of their fundamental elements, and banish their physical form back to the heart of nature where they will meet the Impurities and merge with them  to realize the torment that they always had but were oblivious to all along. Because of all this, he is called "the impurifier" whose purpose includes purging the elements.  It's interesting to note that this so-called "impurifier" kills people by purifying them. Ah, the duality of Leshrac.
Even our natural world isn't safe from him. Leshrac warps nature to his vile will to blight and blast his surroundings. It is possible that all of these destructive actions against nature and its inhabitants can help him achieve his ultimate goal of bringing the world into utter desolation and chaos.
Leshrac's mastery of the elements and the Chronoptic Crystals allows him to effortlessly manipulate the natural world around him as his weapon. This makes him a powerful being who can destroy entire armies and demolish nature itself with his mere presence.


Twisting nature to his vile will, a  Split Earth is observed as the ground shifts beneath his hooves, opening fissures that consumes his enemies in the earth's chasms. A closer look on this ability shows that it uses Chronoptic energies to work its destructive powers, as seen in the picture to the right. Enemies stricken by this are soiled for some reason, probably because the sudden ground movement discharges the soil around.
Also known as "Edict of Death" to himself, his  Diabolic Edict moves Chronoptic energy from one plane to another, manifesting bursts of said energy which evaporates anything it touches.  This evil decree shares Leshrac's impure torment to others.
Leshrac ignites a spark in the skies to summon a massive  Lightning Storm that rains down indiscriminate streaks of lightning upon entire enemy armies. These lightning bolts are very torrid and can ignite enemies upon impact. The lightning's unnatural color may be from his chronoptic energy, but purple lightning is natural in real life, so it might not be the case for this one.
Nihilism has no lore to describe what it does outside of gameplay, besides it being a reference to his nihilosophy.
The body of Leshrac pulsates with waves of damaging energy in a luminous  Pulse Nova, manipulating the spacetime fabric itself to destroy lesser beings.
Allies meeting Leshrac
Enemies killing Leshrac
Others
1. Lore image source
