The locuthi is a strange species of dragon in the lore of Dota 2.
Based on the few mentions of the locuthi in Dota 2's lore, these dragons live in the torrid Hazhadal Barrens.
At first glance, the locuthi bears absolutely no resemblance to a dragon. However, it is actually a stunted species of dragon, which might explain its super odd appearance.
The locuthi appears to be more akin to an ungulate than a Dragon. A quadruped itself, the locuthi has hooves with three toes—two front toes and one dewclaw on its front legs. On its hind legs though, it also has two front toes, but the points of its hocks have a claw sticking out of it, which possibly used to be its hind toe. This implies that it had avian features, much like most dragons. The hump over its shoulders and neck means that it has tall extensions on top of its cervical vertebrae, akin to the humps seen on bisons. It has a small horn on top of its black nose. Running along the crest is a mane akin to a horse's, plus it has a goatee beard and facial hair somewhat akin to mutton chops or sideburns.
Under the magic of animal enthrallers in this Hazhadal Barrens, the locuthi are capable of melting desert sands into tubes of glass. The way they achieve this is currently unknown, but given the fact that they're a species of Dragon, they might have the ability to breathe flame, heat or other hot materials. In this case, they may have a gullet for producing flame (and perhaps gnashing and grinding swallowed food with gullet iron or other hard material that's ingested), just like most dragons.
Locuthi are stated to be a dragon species capable of burrowing. The purpose for their ability to burrow is unknown; possibly for making homes, storing food, or seeking respite.
The godless outlaw tribes of the Hazhadal Barrens husbanded the local locuthi using an ancient brand of animal enthrallment. Under their magics, their locuthi melted sand into glass tubes that collected infrequent rainfall. The locuthi also acted as their martial animals, as shown when they were dispatched against the Knights of the Fold.
A remnant from the life that he lived before his holy conversion, the locuthi is the default mount of  Chen. Its eyes glow blue akin to Chen's, suggesting that he either used his clan's ancient brand of animal enthrallment, the magic of the knights of the Fold, or a mix of both on this locuthi to make it serve him. As such, it appears to be depressed. His locuthi is one of the necessary elements of survival in his crusade across his former desert home. It may wear lightweight and light-colored barding to aid its survival in the harsh desert.
