From the vast remains of Verodicia, the Nature's Prophet sprouts into full leaf, rolling the great wheel of life once more. With the foresight to watch over the creations of his goddess and the power to protect it in times of need, the favored son of Verodicia preserves his life and all of her creations to never squander the fated yet selfless sacrifice that his goddess underwent with great sorrow.
Nature's Prophet was summoned to the side of the ancient forest warden Virga Truebark when she defied the Iron Princeling. Together, nature's guardians fought side by side against their common adversary. The outcome of this fight is currently unknown.
The riverlands hero Castor Twin-Tusks challenged Verodicia's chosen prophet to an arcane duel. Castor lost both the duel and his life.
Nature's Prophet is the favored son of Verodicia. As stated in his biography, he was born from his goddess' last seed which was blessed by her final word before she swallowed it as she died. Like all the other flora that the goddess planted, his seed fed upon her decomposed remains and became the first seed to sprout before the rest of her holy forest. He also claims that he is the reincarnation of Verodicia or even her avatar.
He also has siblings, which includes a bunch of deerlike treants with four legs, akin to the Enchantress. These spry treants, like the Prophet, are one of the first born of the wilderness & have been with him since time immemorial.
Just like the goddess that bore him, the Prophet's domain is the wild forest. He is the staunch protector of all that is natural, his watch over the forest is enhanced by the foresight that Verodicia gave to him. The Prophet is not only a sentinel of the flora, but also a sentinel of all beasts and birds. Keeping his sentinel over the forest, he is always wandering the wide wilderness in search of places that may beckon his aid.
Besides being a guardian of nature, he also rules over his grove as a wise leader. Ruling as a Verdant King, he governs the land with a crown of kingly horns sharpened with the wisdom of judgment.
Judging by the name, the Prophet may be a guard of the tribes that dwell in the deep forest. Unlike their milk-fed cousins, these men are primal, driven by instinct and a will to survive They call upon nature's pantheon, which is bereft of gentle gods. The aforementioned lore and the Celtic-inspired design on the Prophet's bracers may suggest that these savage men are ancient forest druids.
The Prophet is one of the many Heroes that the  Earth Spirit rallies together to defend their planet's lands. These guardians are as follows: the Enchantress, the Lone Druid,  and Ulfsaar. This seems to suggest that there is a hidden faction that is dedicated to the defense of all nature. Kaolin, whose spirit is at one with the planet even after he was cut off from it, claims that he and the Prophet's spirits are alike.
Alongside  Treant Protector, the Prophet is the pride of Verodicia. Despite their relationship, the Prophet does not say anything friendly to Rooftrellen, to the point of him going completely out of character. On the other branch, Rooftrellen calls him a "little tree" whenever he meets him, probably because Rooftrellen treats him as his younger sib, even though the Prophet is older than him since he was the first seed in Verodicia's forest to grow.
As a fellow guardian of Nature,  Lone Druid is in good standing with this Prophet. This is evident in the fact that Sylla will feel confused and betrayed if the Prophet attacks or slays him. He also feels dismayed to know that he was forced to kill the Prophet. Sylla tells his Prophet that, regardless of his power or station, even he must respect his mission to plant the Seed, further hinting at his mission's significance even to the forces of nature.
The bounty of Nature is sustained and strengthened by the blessings of the Earth where it holds its roots. Thus, the  Earthshaker and the Prophet are on good terms with each other, with the former respecting the Prophet even in his death. These two share a common understanding of an unknown subject that not all beings get.
Nature's Prophet once tried to recruit  Hoodwink into his affiliation of nature's guardians, but the loner rascal refused his offer, also refusing to be ordered around by him.
Apparently,  Windranger feels regret when killing the Prophet since she knows that he's the son of Verodicia, which hints that they were on good terms with each other.
Just like the Prophet, the  Drow Ranger values the forest and makes her home in it, even claiming it as her personal domain. Thus she may ask for the Prophet's aid in reclaiming the woods. Sometimes, she believes that she is the chosen of the woods, rather than the Prophet. Ever since she put on the  Mask of Madness, however, she dislikes being followed by the Prophet.
At some point in time, the Prophet loyally fought side by side with Virga Truebark against the Iron Princeling.
Enno can call upon Nature's Prophet as one of the many allied Heroes who can help him claim the leaderless White Spire.
The Prophet is ill-disposed towards the Keen and their S.O.L.K., because their science is a blight and an affront to Nature. He expresses his hostilities specifically towards  Timbersaw and  Tinker. These two Keenfolk share the same sentiments as well.
He rejects the presence of  Venomancer and his  Plague Wards in his forest, for they are an unnatural plague on nature.
The Prophet's body reflects everything about nature, which is most prominent in his cervine horns and hooves for feet. Like the deer and other similar ungulates that his body is based from, he may sometimes paw the ground in his idle animation. Despite this mix of humanoid and animalistic features, he is more akin to plant since he sprouted from a seed. His blood is actually sap, and he is sustained by both sunlight and moonlight, just like photosynthesis. As the avatar of Nature's Wrath, he can take on whatever form he pleases. He may choose to appear as tree, occasionally as predator, or when it suits him as prey. Lastly, he can regrow himself like a plant.
Like a healthy plant, the horns of the Prophet are always in bloom. Leaves that may gather upon his body will return to flourishing life. As he travelled the glens and groves of the wilderness, his hairy beard has grown as wild as he is, turning it into a growth of leaves.
Among the aspects of the Prophet's form, his antlers are the most changeable aspect of his body. During festive events, his antlers can be curved into a symbol of peace to compliment his peaceful outfit. To recognize the most majestic and mightiest beast of the forest, he wears the antlers of the biggest species of moose (Alces alces gigas) as a crown, just like how the rest of the moose species–like the Alces and Cameloides–bow before Gigas. He may also wear horns that recognize the prideful zebu and aurochs of Verodicia's wild domain. The Prophet bears a set of kingly horns that symbolizes his station and rule as a Verdant King. It's said that these horns of noblesse symbolize the wisdom of judgment that sharpens these horns. In a time long forgotten, a grateful king once gifted the Prophet with metal horns as thanks for aiding the forest.
The Prophet seems to be fond of his hair, especially his beard and his shaggy bark. He may be modest with braiding his beard but sometimes he's not content with merely one braid as an Avatar of Immortals. His beard can grow so long, its ends can be tied behind him in a loop. It is said that this loop might represent the brutal cycle of life in the wild, but he may have just tied it back so that his long beard won't get in the way of his mayhem. Or perhaps it holds both a symbol and a purpose...
When the Prophet is reincarnated, he will speak about his visit to an unnamed "dark grey place" during his interval of death and how he wishes to never see that place again. It is possible that this dark grey place that he speaks of is the same world that he saw which is bereft of light, air and water—the three elements essential for all life. However, this world that he saw without light, air and water may be interpreted as the lifeless and desolate future of our world that he saw using his foresight, distinct from the dark grey place that he has been to during his death. It could possibly be the afterlife, since he uses the color grey to describe it, a colour that he associates with death and deterioration.
Those who are slain by the Prophet will have their remains fed to nature for sustenance, continuing the cycle of life even during battle.
An aspect of Spectre states that a cycle continues when the Prophet is slain. This could be a possible reference to the great wheel that encompasses all living things. This could also suggest that the Prophet is not truly immortal like his divine mother who died before she saw the fruiting of her dream, because they are all included in the great wheel which dictates that all that lives must die and repeat in an eternal cycle.
The woodland prophet's title is derived from his powers of foresight that he inherited from Verodicia. Before she died, the woods–goddess saw her grim fate that she had imprinted in one of the leaves within the seed. This power is now being used by the Prophet to foresee where his attention and aid is needed in the forest.
Before his seed birthed the Prophet, he awoke within this seed and saw his destiny, which he said had many branches. The many-branched destiny that he foresaw may be the same coiled-up spirit that Verodicia planted within the seed, a spiritual plant that has many branches where augural leaves stem from, its many branches possibly signifying the many paths of fate that he can choose from.
The Prophet wears a set of fungi and moss themed apparel that are all infused with the essence of the Father Mushroom. The only piece of clothing that is not fungal in this set is its cuffs made of ironwood, but it is still infused with the Father Mushroom's essence. It's unknown who or what the Father Mushroom is.
During occasions of peace and festivity, the Prophet may attend them with a suitable attire. With horns curved into a sign of peace, his hairy beard is groomed into a light and fluffy beard. He wears a lei about his neck during festive events, the garland being a universal symbol of friendship, peace, and good tidings. He also wears a relaxing, white toga. To complete the outfit, he brings with him a staff wrapped with a Candral-Flower, which is plucked from the heart of the Endless Copse.
Resting upon the shoulders of Nature's own prophet is a ring of runestones, with each of these tablets having blue runes written on them. Some of these runes' meanings are unknown, but some of them resemble the runes of old Germanic, Anglo-Saxon, and Scandinavian alphabets—a.k.a. Futhark or the so-called Norse runes. The same runes are also inscribed on his 2 sigil stone bracers. These two sigils bear the signs of an "Elder Ecology". Some of these runes are fictional and their meanings are completely mysterious, but the following Futhark runes can be seen on the Prophet's runestones:
The Prophet's wardrobe is replete with both protective armor and decorative armor. Although it is decorative, the flared crest of wood on his shoulders can provide protection against the axe: the bane of the forest. Replacing his default runestones is a druidic ritual crest made of wooden planks. Written on each of these holy planks is a death–prayer to Verodicia and the name of an enemy to the deep forest. To preserve the memory of the fallen Satyr general Al-Fusha, the Prophet wears his spiked and goddess–blessed pauldron, which is all that remains of his lost wargear when he fell in battle. To aid his rule as a Verdant King, he sports ailettes with runes inscribed on them that can give its wearer the strength to carry the heaviest burden. The upper jaw of the late Castor Twin-Tusks rests on his right shoulder as a trophy of the Prophet's victory in their arcane duel. The coat of leaves that he has by default is also a common apparel amongst the Druids of Verodicia. The green cape that he wears as a Verdant King is wrapped in the power of the ancient woods.
His arcane arsenal is replete with many magical staves. The Prophet has a staff capped with a Sinorian/Sinorion gemstone that provides a magical focus for nature's incantations. In the wilderness, there are creatures who sharpen their tusks on woodsy trunks. The Prophet has taken away their tusks and strapped two pairs of tusks on his staff as a warning to those who would damage the tree barks using their tusks. As a Verdant King, he carries a holy staff that is engraved with shining runes that denote the secret name of the woods–goddess.  As a wise prophet with a hoary brand of wisdom, he carries a well–seasoned staff that compliments this wisdom. He also wields a curled plant staff that bears six spectrolite mana focusing crystals, set in gold. Not to mention that he is the proud owner of the  Orchid Malevolence, a garnet rod made from a fire demon's essence, and the  Scythe of Vyse, a powerful relic from the cult of Vyse that has the powers of polymorph.
In some cases, the Prophet sources his staves from nature itself. With his impossibly gentle grip, he pulled out a branch to make a staff without causing the butterflies that were sitting on it to flee. From the gnarliest tree in the Manglewood Forest, he detached a limb from that tree to construct an enchanted wood staff. He also has a journey stick crafted from a gnarled branch that eventually found use as a weapon. Lastly, he has a staff fashioned from a Sufferwood sapling.
Before the Prophet's seed was made to sprout, Verodicia imbued a sapphire gem with a spark of her essence. This gem was a fail-safe left in the wastes of a war-torn land to restore life and restart its cycle in places that may lack it.


All of the Prophet's spell effects appears to share the same yellow-orange or amber colored light, which even extends to the colour of his own attack projectile. What this similarity between his spells and projectiles means is unclear, but it's possible that this color is the magery of the Prophet which relies on and taps directly into the heart of Verodicia's wrathsome will, rather than drawing upon blood magic or mana.
Sprout allows the Prophet to grow a ring of trees to fence in his opponents. Reports of the the Prophet's fury state that he frequently uses this on his attackers.
Teleportation does not have much lore to it, so it can simply be assumed that it is nothing but a teleportation ability.


Nature's Call is but one of the many abilities bestowed upon him by the woods-goddess. With this boon, he has the ability to summon the Treant Guard, a mythical sentient army of the wild. The rune left behind by his staff looks similar to the fehu rune found in old Germanic, Anglo-Saxon, and Scandinavian alphabets (a.k.a. the so-called Norse runes). Fehu means "mobile wealth" when translated, which is possibly symbolized by the treants. The trees are the wealth and the bounty of nature and the Prophet's magic uproots and animates them, allowing them to move freely. Hence the Fehu rune of mobile wealth.
Calling upon Verodicia's fury, the Prophet summons the  Wrath of Nature to strike down those who might ravage the wilderness, smiting them all with its far-reaching energies. Like all of his default spell effects, the color of this spell's energy is yellow-orange/amber, which might be the manifestation of Verodicia's fury by the Prophet's magery.
Allies meeting Nature's Prophet
Enemies killing Nature's Prophet
Enemies dying to Nature's Prophet
Others
