



Balanar, the Night Stalker, is an ancient night creature who survived the decimation of his kin on the First Day. As ancient as the primordial darkness that predated daylight itself, his true history is lost to the ages. Only apocryphal stories woven into the lore of every race and culture exist to tell the tale of a boogeyman who stalks in the hours of darkness, invoked by the old stories of the elders to scare younglings into good behavior.
Those who dare to defy these warnings or stand against their fears are only met with their demise, a testimony to the fact that Balanar is not an abstract personification fabricated by the elders to warn their younglings, but a real being in the flesh—and that Balanar himself created that role just for the sake of it.
When the world was barely brightened by the rider of Light, it existed during a period when morning never came to pass and days were known as nights. In this perpetual state of umbra, creatures of darkness reigned unchallenged over the world. Soon after, the first among the prey of these beasts grew to worship their masters, forging armor and regalia to honor their magnificence. Balanar was one of the few among these masters who were gifted regalia by his prey, signifying that he was a very powerful figure among the creatures of darkness.
But soon these great creatures did not reign unmatched, nor did they have any impunity. They found themselves in conflict with the armies of the Children of Light, who took up the Keeper's mantle in bringing light to every corner of the universe, while having their own goal to purge the cosmos of all creatures of primordial night. One of their heralds, Valora the Dawnbreaker, came into conflict with these creatures as well.
On the dawn of the First Day, all the night creatures perished. Balanar survived this onslaught due to the sheer amount of darkness residing in his heart that allowed him to sustain himself through daylight (but in a weakened state) leaving him the sole survivor of the event. He now plays the role of the Night Terror, the Boogeyman, punishing those who ignore the tales and warnings of their communities with death, stalking the unwitting and unwary, and striking fear into generations of families and societies with his mere existence.
At some point in time, definitely after the eradication of his kin, Balanar was captured and bound by the Order of Ra'hul with cursed chains that were said to bring his ancient power to heel. Although the Order was initially successful, their prisoner escaped when nighttime fell, restoring the Night Stalker back to full power and allowing him to break free, possibly slaughtering the Order in the process.
Balanar is not involved in any of the events in Artifact, but card art depicts him attacking Enchantress in a dark forest.
As a night creature, Balanar should be hostile towards the Children of Light and their creations, including  Dawnbreaker. These star progeny dispatched many armies to purge the cosmos of all creatures of primordial night, likely resulting in the catastrophic event known as the First Day which killed all the night creatures.
Balanar is a Strength hero, a powerful embodiment of overwhelming force and great durability. A beast of the night, he relies on his claws and teeth to tear at his enemies. He has a pair of membranous wings that he usually unfolds during nighttime to fly untethered from the ground, allowing him to catch up to his prey should they choose to escape from him.
Although he is physically powerful, Balanar is no ordinary beast who merely relies on bodily weapons. He possesses a myriad of ancient powers revolving around fear and shadow to cripple his opponents and bring them to heel. This ancient power makes him an eldritch creature, although not as eldritch as the likes of a faerie dragon.
Lore-wise, Balanar's  Void is a surprisingly powerful skill, if not an actual magic spell. The skill involves Balanar creating a vortex that pulls his enemies into the time period when the primordial darkness was still unlit by the First Day. Its description implies that Void is a time travel ability with offensive capabilities or a form of temporal banishment.
Crippling Fear allows Balanar to transmit a vision of his unhinged mouth into the minds of his victims, horrifying those he deigns to use this ability on. It is so horrifying that nearby spellcasters are silenced. The mental image obstructs their vision, hence the Blind debuff that it used have.
Hunter in the Night is not an actual ability that Balanar has in the lore. It is more of a translation of Balanar being at his strongest during nighttime into a gameplay mechanic.
His ultimate,  Dark Ascension, allows him to summon darkness to turn day into night or extend the duration of nighttime, at least according to its effects in gameplay.
Besides his gameplay abilities (that somewhat have a connection to the lore) and passive skills, Balanar has some other powers found in his lore. He has the ability to call upon the souls of his perished brethren from the void by using himself as their spiritual focus into the material plane, allowing them to haunt the living.
Allies meeting Night Stalker
Enemies killing Night Stalker
Others
