
Nikdo is a minor character exclusive to the series of Dota: Dragon's Blood.
Nikdo doesn't have a physical appearance in this episode, but he was mentioned several times. In the corner of a tavern within the human settlement of Barrowhaven, Gwanwyn, an elf whose occupation is locating items of great value for wealthy clients, reveals to Mirana and Marci that he does not have the stolen lotuses of her moon-goddess that she asked him for. Instead, he recommends going to the Black Market in Hauptstadt to see Nikdo, who will help her in locating the lotuses. Unsatisfied, Mirana rejects his offer and reminds him of his job of retrieving items, not names. He insists on being paid for that, but Mirana refuses to pay only for a name, so he replies that he will cancel the bargain with Nikdo and leaves.
Not wanting to leave a transaction empty-handed, Mirana stops Gwanwyn from leaving and decides to pay him instead. She admits that she has no Money but she is willing to pay him with "other items of value" as she reaches for something in her pocket. Gwanwyn mistakes the offer for prostituting herself and withsays, mockingly telling her that Human Women are "pleasantly soft but too easy to come by." This provokes Marci who stands from her seat to fight him, only to be halted by Mirana who corrects him. She hands Her bracelet to him, who recognizes Mirana's identity through it and her circlet. He is suddenly interrupted by a perverted villager and his pals, the former intending to take Mirana and Marci as his women.
Following a scene in the tavern that was pacified by Davion, Gwanwyn was banished because he was an elf in a Human settlement. The two exiles follow him outside as he tells them to meet Nikdo in Hauptstadt before running away.
After being admitted entry to Hauptstadt's Black Market, a majordomo ushers Mirana And Marci to a private meeting room. Mirana and Marci discover and inspect Nikdo's portrait on the wall before Mirana takes a seat while Marci stands guard beside her. The doors in front of them open as four beefy bodyguards enter the room, followed by the man himself. Nikdo introduces himself to the pair and asks for their names, but Mirana gets straight to business, and confirms if he has info on the location of a certain rare artifact. Nikdo confirms that to some extent, saying that he knows much, but like Gwanwyn before him, he seeks payment for his services. Mirana replies by revealing herself as the most favored of her Moon-Goddess Selemene and that he will be rewarded handsomely by her goddess if he helps them.
Although he seemed to be oblivious to who Mirana truly was, Nikdo revealed that he knew this all along as Gwanwyn walks into his room with her bracelet. Realizing that she has been betrayed, Gwanwyn reveals that he was working for her uncle Shabarra all along to return her to the Helio Imperium. After stealing her circlet without resistance, Mirana expresses her regrets of not leaving him to be killed by the villagers in Barrowhaven. Gwanwyn then leaves Marci and Mirana to Nikdo and his men to be taken to the jails downstairs to be trafficked and returned to Shabarra, respectively. He is never seen again after this.
The majordomo in the Black Market refers to him as "Master Nikdo", implying that he has a high rank in the Black Market, or he is its head honcho. As such, he is often accompanied by multiple bodyguards, further proof of his status.
Nikdo and Gwanwyn made a deal to give the former  Marci while he took  Miranǎ to return her to Emperor Shabarra. To this end, the elf lured the two into the Black Market.
He often carries a mundane scepter with him. It may be a symbol of his status.
