The Nivan Gallants are an organization of men and women who dedicate their lives to swordplay, romance, and adventure. Committed to a code of honor and justice, the Gallants seek out battles against tyrants while eschewing dishonorable conduct. Its members appear to made up of a pangolin-like race. Joining the organization is no small feat, and applicants must go through extensive training in martial arts. Schools and churches are found on their training grounds, as are wooden dummies and rolling ramps.
Hedonistic and fun-loving, the Gallants indulge in wine and love, and have a strong sense of camaraderie and competition among its members. Their honor tells them to reject bondage and servitude, and to have pity for the weak, the young, and the disabled. They prefer direct combat to subterfuge. After a victory, they celebrate and toast their glorious actions.
The Nivan Gallant's motto is "A life of adventure is the only life worth living". Their favored weapons are rapiers and muskets.
The Gallants find themselves at odds with oppressors, waging war against the likes of King Sylak. During that war, the Gallants battled the king's pyromancers, and none survived save the young Donte Panlin. His mentor Etienne Swiftguard fell in the fighting, but not before handing Donte his musket, which Donte still uses today. For the most part, they perform their heroics in the open, and relish the fame that comes with news of their deeds. However, the Gallants sometimes operate in secrecy, donning masks for the sake of protecting their charges and themselves.
Aside from tyrants, the Gallants also fight and kill demons, as well as seeking out danger wherever they go.
The Nivan Gallant is friendly with the Order of the Oyo, perhaps because of their shared love of wine.
Pudge once ate a member of the Gallants, who swore that his brothers would take revenge on his behalf. This has yet to happen.
