The Nothl Realm is an ethereal dimension in the world of Dota 2.
In the Nothl Realm, the properties of all things in the earthly world are inverted. But the most notable inversion of this realm lies within its version of light and dark. Its darkness emits a blinding glow that illuminates the blackest reaches of the light that permeates the realm. Anything that encumbers in the Nothl Realm will manifest as a source of strength on the material plane. Because of its paradoxical elements and inherent dangers, a spiritual journey to this realm can be very harrowing and dangerous. There is a chance that its visitants may never return their spirit to their home world, and some of its visitants may return mad or return with powers sourced from the realm itself.
The Nothl Realm is an afterlife for those who are deeply connected to it or sacrificed to it and a place of rebirth (for those who are deeply connected to it) into the lands of the living.
According to Aghanim, Dazzle's powers are a mixture of chakra and chaos magic, possibly referring to the  Chakra Magic of Light and the chaotic energies of Dark. Since Dazzle's powers are from the Nothl Realm, it's possible that  Keeper of the Light and  Chaos Knight may have some connection to this place.
Dazzle states that his magic (which is sourced from the Nothl Realm) invokes the power of all realms. What this exactly means is currently unknown.
All acolytes to the Order must undergo the Rite of Shades, their final rite of passage which involves a spiritual trip to the Nothl, to be promoted into the ranks of the Shadow Priests. If they complete the dark initiation safely, they will become Shadow Priests, vectors of the Nothl's power into the earthly plane.
Seasoned acolytes of the Order can perform the  Shallow Grave rite, preventing the death of its recipient no matter how close they are to their death. The ritual works by preserving the faintest spark of life that remains in a dying person's heart to restart it. It seems that the darkness of the Nothl is behind the spell's power.
The  Shadow Wave is the most common ritual among the ranks of the Shadow Priests, thanks to its effectiveness which stems from its simplicity. Dazzle's version of this ritual casts a healing light that is actually a hidden sinister evil.
Bad Juju is the side effect of any Nothl rituals. Any invocation of the Nothl's power causes the realm to leak into our world, inflicting unknown dangers to those already afflicted by its Nothlic rituals.
Weave was removed from the game long ago, but the lore should still remain. Unique to Dazzle because of his ethereal journey to the Nothl, the user can mend together the power of both light and dark to create shifting waves of enchantments that can benefit and weaken friend and foe respectively.
Clothes that are woven in complete darkness can channel the essence of the Nothl Realm into its weave. Because of this magic, it's believed that the garments' enchantments will grow stronger as it ages. These holy garments are revered for their hallowed creators and catalysts of heightened Nothlic power.
Access to the Nothl Realm is known only to the Dezun Order, who guards the secrets to the access of the ethereal shade. It involves many methods, one of which involves drinking a sacred potion made of secret ingredients. Another way in includes a dose from the Great Pipe.
Dazzle is the youngest Hero to access the Nothl Realm. His time spent in the Nothl Realm has granted him a strong connection to that world, blessing him with the power to wield its inverted elements. Exploiting his deep connection to this realm, he often visits the Nothl for his experiments such as turning his deficiencies into a source of strength.
Huskar almost reached his apotheosis when he was willingly sacrificed to the Nothl Realm but was painfully reprieved by a deep incantation cast upon him by Dazzle. He returned with nigh-immortality and the ability to draw strength from his injuries. According to Inai, the Nothl is a "playground" to Huskar.
Mars knows and understands the Nothl Realm. He likens it to a latrine, likely because of how (possibly unwanted) people are dumped into it as sacrifice.
As an usher to all kinds of afterlife,  Visage's purview extends to the Nothl Realm.
The omniscience of the  Void Spirit encompasses even the Nothl Realm.
Siltbreaker has seen the Nothl Realm and is unimpressed by what he saw.
The Dezun Order is the sole mortal faction to have a thorough knowledge of the Nothl Realm and its secrets.
The violet shryll is a species of avian with a liminal existence between this world and the Nothl. Only its wingtips cross the boundary into the Nothl from this world, making the tips of its feathers dark while the rest of its white body remains in the Terrene Plane.
A one winged draconic creature was captured by Huskar, who has used it for his own ends. It's possible that this creature came from this realm or has some form of connection to it.
In the jungles of Fellstrath, there is a species of butterfly that can draw energies from the Nothl Realm using their proboscis. They are inefficient with their feeding, and each puncture that they make to tap into the Nothl allows its influence to leak into the Terrene Plane. Dazzle was the first person to discover these creatures.
The  Nullifier was said to be stolen from an inverse dimension, possibly referring to the Nothl Realm.
