Already unique to his own species, whose telepathic abilties render them unique amongst every creature in the seven planes, the Nyx Assassin emerged from his metamorphosis as a powerful arachnid with sharp mandibles, blade-like claws, and a consciousness whose thoughts are as penetrating as its appendages. But he did not have these when he was born. No, the Nyx Assassin is but one of the many zealot scarabs that are chosen by Nyx for metamorphosis, a process that not all scarabs can survive.
After being chosen by Nyx, the zealot scarab is anointed with the queen goddess' extract in her own chambers. If they manage to survive the process, they are reborn as the Nyx Assassin with unique abilities that grant them a unique status and level in their caste. Like most insects, they are composed of chitin, but the Nyx Assassin's body may be modified with other materials.
The Nyx Assassin is naturally armed with many deadly features. His thin, ornate carapace is guarded by a retractable field of razor sharp spikes that dissuades melee attackers from touching him. His sharp mandibles speaks nothing but his bite and his metallic claws help him tear through the soft armor of his targets. However, it is his mind that makes his unique. His subtle, psychic abilities allows him to communicate with his thoughts alone and eat away at the minds of lesser beings.
In some point in time, the Nyx Assassin has undergone several augmentations to its physical body. Over the course of seven seasons, a carapace that granted the Nyx Assassin protection against blade and magic was molded by the slow administration of alchemicals. He also received a stinger and two metallic pincers that were screwed to the ends of his frontal appendages. Lastly, the mystical wand Dagon may be fused into the Nyx Assassin's body as a complement to his abilities.
Besides being susceptible to his goddess' modifications, the Nyx Assassin's body parts may also be interchangeable. He is granted ceremonial body parts (equivalent to ceremonial clothing) such as claws, a carapace, and a horn that are bestowed upon him when he makes his first and third kill. He is also granted the Carapace of the Sacred Orb through painful molting. The carapace holds the Sacred Orb, whose influence allows the Nyx Assassin to perceive more of Nyx's bounty.
The Nyx Assassin also possesses the burrowing capabilities of the typical zealot scarab, but the Assassin caste mainly uses it to ambush opponents and attack unseen. Using this skill, the current incarnation of the Nyx Assassin managed to dig deeper than his predecessors. In doing this, he found a vein of blue luminous crystals that soon coated several parts of his exoskeleton. The crystals increased his power and influence when it was introduced to his hive.
The current Nyx Assassin has loathed Abaddon since the birth of his unique caste. Likewise, it appears that Abaddon has defeated previous emissaries sent by Nyx.
Broodmother has eaten several of Nyx Assassin's fellow zealot scarabs.
According to Lanaya, the Hidden Ones are also interested in recruiting Nyx Assassin. The Hidden Ones are also interested in his talents, and consider it a waste to kill him.
Allies meeting Nyx Assassin
Enemies killing Nyx Assassin
Others
