The Oglodi are a race of humanoids that inhabit the Dota 2 world. Their wide, flat noses differentiate their race from other humanoid beings. They are known for their physical toughness and respected for their strength. Oglodi can be red-skinned or light-skinned, and some are much larger than others.
The Oglodi were once a peaceful and esoterically focused people that practiced art and philosophy rather than concepts of war. This all changed when the Tarnsmen, a group of demons who worshipped a demonic war god, destroyed their great city. The Tarnsmen laid waste to the Oglodi capital, but they ended the war on a whim just because they were bored of fighting them. The Oglodi were determined to rebuild their civilization from the ashes, and together they set aside their artisan ways to become warriors themselves. They established the Red Mist army and sought out the Tarnsmen in the Thousand Tarns, slaughtering the demon worshippers and their cyclopean war god. The sheer amount of bloodshed colored the lakes red and the demon's blood mixed with the blood of the Oglodi themselves.
Before the terrible tragedy that befelled the Oglodi, they were once artisans of art and philosophy. Nowadays, most Oglodi are fond of warfare, and have formed armies like the Red Mist and Bloodmist. They are led by a Khan, and notorious for their brutal violence and their tendency to react violently even against a mere suggestion. Nevertheless, some Oglodi, like Demnok Lannik and Disruptor, choose the path of magic and scholarship instead. For this reason,  Grimstroke hints that the Oglodi might have a hidden repository somewhere, possibly filled with secrets.
The Oglodi despise the Keen because of their small stature and physical weakness. The Red Mist army clashed with the Tresdin's Bronze Legion at Roseleaf, indicating some kind of rivalry with Stonehall.
The Oglodi have been known to hunt trolls, including Jah'rakal.
