The Ogre Seal is a species of pinniped in the world of Dota 2. Despite the name, they seem to have nothing to do with actual ogres.
They coexist with the growlers in the cold land of Whitecap, dwelling beneath its frozen bodies of water or on the snow covered lands. As undead creatures, they can still be found haunting the ancient crypts of the Odobenus Legion that sits atop the mountains of Azura. They are an endangered species.
Ogre seals are named after the ogres for their two prominent tusks protruding from their lower jaw that points upwards as well as their corpulent physiques. They have a very large drooping proboscis, just like the real-life elephant seals. Their bodies appear to have two torsos. The upper torso gives them a pair of arms that allows them to grab objects, while the lower torso looks just like a seal's. Their tusks are strong enough to be crafted into a totem.
Undead ogre seals have a green aura to their appearance, which may be the Wraith Essence that gives all untethered spirits and revenants their form.
For a massive pinniped, ogre seals are quite intelligent. They are smart enough to wield weapons and wear the bones of animals as some form of clothing. Ogre seals employ ambush tactics when hunting by floating in wait underneath the frozen waters before bursting out to attack.
It's possible that ogre seals are carnivorous like the ogres they were named after. A human skull can be seen as one of the many bones that they wear on them.
According to the gastromancer Remi, ogre seal meat is a delicacy because it is rich in proteins. Remi slew an ogre seal and harvested its meat for his taco dish, which he plans to use to gain a seat in the White Orchids.
The self-proclaimed mage king Aghanim included the ogre seals in his deadly labyrinth of monsters (read: slaughterhouse) from infinite dimensions, despite knowing that they're the last of their kind. He also compliments his chosen Heroes on not hesitating to extinguish the last ogre seals.
An undead ogre seal
