



An eerie visitant to our realm from the outer dark, Harbinger, the Outworld Destroyer (or Outworld Devourer) arrives to our world to bring dark tidings and unswayable omens that only he could hope to avert. He originates from the World on the Rim, a crystalline fortress afloat in the cold nameless space between the stars and planets. Although he is very powerful and intimidating on his own, he is merely an omen for worse things that await all of creation.
Harbinger is the sole surviving member of an unnamed magisterial race, whose sole remaining member has sentenced himself to an eternal vigil on a vantage point known as the Outworld. On this crystalline fortress, Harbinger anticipates the evil that was foretold in the prophetic music of his mind, its rhythms implying that eventually this evil from the edges of reality will awaken and turn its attention to our world with an ineffable but certainly dark intention. Harbinger paid little attention to the events across the solar system containing the planet housing the warring Ancients, but a sense at the edge of his consciousness tells him that the war of the Ancients itself might serve as the catalyst of a darker force that may very well be the same evil that he has been anticipating for eternities.
Although he once trivialized this war, a change of mind has dispatched him towards the mundane planet to end the conflict between both Ancients in the hopes that at least this evil may be averted for the time being. But his arrival is not to be heralded as a messianic presence, but rather an explicit omen with warnings and bad news awaiting those who need to hear it—that is to say, all of existence.
Deep in the cold space between the stars and the planets, Harbinger has anticipated Kanna's rise to power and the induction of the Earthshaker as her champion. What he does not sense, however, is her acceptance of an authority figure's guidance as she has disowned her mother. And so he goes, his stony wings aloft, towards the celestial body housing the warring Ancients.  He aligns with the hordes of the Dire and presents himself as Kanna's very own seneschal, filling up the void that her mother left behind. Little does she know that Harbinger has already set the cornerstone for her eternal servitude towards him. And nothing can prepare them for whatever he plans to do with her next...
Harbinger is one of the few heroes of Dota 2 to have an unambiguous alignment with an Ancient and its armies. In the card game Artifact, he has allied himself with the forces of Dire, including the likes of Kanna and  Earthshaker who was recruited by the former.
It is only natural for a Dire hero to be ill disposed towards the Radiant. Harbinger protects Kanna from her own mother, Prellex, who is a priestess of the Radiant. He also seeks to kill her while claiming that her daughter is right about something that she said.
Harbinger's head and the upper surface of his body are coated in dark stones with veins that flow with green energy. The rest of his body appears to resemble that of a griffin's, with extremities that resemble the talons of eagle, save for the appearance of fingernails on his hands. The stone that covers his body might be the same material that can be found in his Outworld homeland, since a self-assembling crystal and a species of crystalline tree, both native to the Outworld, share a similar composition with his gritty body.
The rocky material that covers his body serves as armor impregnable to the piercing rays of the evil forces from the outer dark. He may also wear an armor that's forged from the plasmic residue of a star named Dragon, which is said to be much more durable than dragon hide.
His wings produce a strange sound whenever they beat. This may be the so-called rhythms of eternity that he refers to.
As an eldritch being, Harbinger's powers are based on his superior intelligence and mastery of the arcane energies. He is also one of the few heroes who have the ability to foresee the future, but he doesn't rely on scrying or foresight. Instead, he relies on the dark music in his mind that, according to his biography, plays a resonant pattern akin to a prophecy.
Harbinger's outworldly knowledge allows itself to access the ebb and flow of all spiritual energy, infusing it into his being to project a powerful  Arcane Orb. This so-called ebb and flow of spiritual energy may be a synonym for mana, as it is often described as a spiritual or ethereal energy.
Astral Imprisonment is an ability where Harbinger banishes an unfortunate victim into the pocket between "this world" (presumably the material plane) and the Outworld, where they realize their infantile knowledge and vulnerability to death. Some of Harbinger's unused voice lines imply that this pocket is named "the Outer Dark" or "the Abyss", likely referring to the same Void mentioned in his biography and in his signature card in Artifact.
Essence Flux allows him to replenish his energy reserves by channeling the the arcane energy produced by the Outworld's crystals through any of his rifts, causing it to flow into his being regardless of his location. This essentially makes him a living mana dispenser, except that the energy he dispenses is reserved for him alone.
Lastly, when Harbinger ruptures an Outworld crystal, it unleashes a  Sanity's Eclipse that releases powerful energies to blot out the minds of those caught in the blast. Such is its power that its reverberations can be felt across dimensions.
Outside of his gameplay abilities, Harbinger has some powers in his lore. If necessary, Harbinger may call upon a dark power to protect the "inmost shells of creation" from the evil incomprehensible forces bent on destroying it. Besides being described as symmetrical, nothing else is said about this power. He also possesses a staff made of self-assembling crystals from Outworld that can imprison opponents inside them.
Allies meeting Outworld Destroyer
Enemies meeting Outworld Destroyer
Enemies killing Outworld Destroyer
Enemies dying to Outworld Destroyer
Others
