Although he is often asked, Pudge refuses to answer any questions about his family, and gets quite irate at curious strangers. In his youth, he served in the employ of King Brandalon as his royal butcher. This was the beginning of Pudge's career, which he considered the best years of his life. The King's reign was particularly bloody, and Pudge is one of the few who are still alive to remember the carnage. At some point, he also spent some time on a farm.
Pudge is immune to most forms of natural decay. This trait was sought by an enchanter from Weeping Rose who managed to acquire it (in the form of Pudge's essence) through unknown means. This essence was later used to bring the inanimate Pudge doll to life.
Seeking meat, Pudge journeyed to the Fields of Endless Carnage, where he loomed over the dead, cutting up and devouring their flesh. For reasons unknown, he left the Fields before the Rumusque Clerics made a pilgrimage there to purge the land.
Pudge is a voracious eater of meat. He prefers raw, red meat, but will consume just about any type of flesh, including that of his fallen enemies. He is so gluttonous that he once ate a black dragon. He follows where war goes, keeping his belly filled with the fresh meat of the newly slain.
Occasionally, Pudge also eats a bit of raw fish, although he does not consider it "real" meat. He is also fond of bone marrow, but doesn't care much for chicken.
He has a keen sense of smell, especially for meat. Unlike most living things, Pudge never needs to sleep.
Long ago, the Chains of Abscession were forged by the Rumusque cleric Crella to bind the minions of the Dead God. Over time, the Chains became corrupted by The Dirge, and fell into the Dead God's power. They turned against Crella's people, destroying her homeland. Since then, the Chains have taken on a mind of their own. It dislikes gods, and has a particular hunger for Anti-Mage, likely due to his opposition to the Dead God. The Chains are familiar with Vrogros, having consumed his minions before.
Pudge came upon the Chains of Abscession after being banished for an unknown reason. He found himself in a place filled with the dead, and smelled something of interest inside a great crack in the earth. Entering the crack, Pudge encountered the Chains of Abscession, lured there by the same things he had smelled. The Chains moved of their own accord, flying through the air and attacking Pudge. Eventually, he was able to subdue the Chains, and bring it under his control. The Dead God considers this an act of theft, and demands the Chains be returned, going as far as to send Pudge meat. However, Pudge enjoys the Chains' company and has no intention of giving them back.
Deep in an estate in the kingdom of Krimwohl, a young girl born to royalty lived alone by herself: she had no parental figures, guardians, or servants around to attend to her needs. Over time, she developed a wicked personality and heard of the tales of Pudge, a monster immune to all decay. Using the vast wealth and connections at her disposal, she called upon an enchanter from Weeping Rose to retrieve the essence of Pudge. The enchanter's journey took months to complete, and in that timeframe the Pudge doll was crafted as a vessel for the essence.
The enchanter finally arrived at Krimwohl with Pudge's essence at hand, and the doll was ready to be imbued with it. Arcane markings were derived from the essence, which brought the The Toy Butcher to life. Little did they know that Pudge's immortality and imperishability wasn't the only trait that the doll inherited, but it also shared his voracious appetite as well as his memories, which made it believe that it was undead who lived in Quoidge (just like Pudge himself).
Pudge once had a ditch hog as a pet. He found the animal in a pile of slaughtered meat, and had to sew back some of its wounds. It was his best friend, but he ate it in the end.
