



Hailing from the Nether Reaches, Pugna is the latest descendant in a lineage of reincarnated beings who are the superior practitioners of the Arts of Oblivion. Chosen at a tender age by the regents of the late Grandmaster of Oblivion to determine their master's next reincarnation, he wasted no time and effort in displaying his innate ability to wield the power of Oblivion and the Nether Realm, qualifying him to the throne of his predecessor.
Having grown more powerful than his previous incarnation as he learned more dark magics in his academy and grew older, he now wields the emerald flames of the Nether Reaches and the power of Oblivion with indiscriminate effect: incinerating anyone he wishes, toppling their creations into ashes, and stealing whatever he wants from whoever he deigns to notice.
Born in the Nether Reaches, Pugna was only thirteen months old when he was selected among two other ankle biters by the regents of the late Grandmaster of Oblivion. Years before little Pugna's rite of passage, the Grandmaster had passed into Oblivion, leaving his temple for the Arts of Oblivion without a leader. From the moment of his passing, his regents immediately began rites of divination to identify their master's next reincarnation, and eventually all omens converged on the children of the village before their master's temple.
On the appointed day, the infantile Pugna (alongside two other promising tots) was brought to the late grandmaster's temple to verify the prophecies of their master's reincarnation. The lamas presented a hodgepodge of the grandmaster's worn belongings before them to see if any of them could recognize the relics from a previous life. One little boy picked up a porphyry wand that belonged to the head lama and put it in his nostril. An impish girl took an amulet that also belonged to the lama and immediately swallowed it. But Pugna came along and regarded them coolly, letting out a merry laugh, before incinerating them both in puffs of Nether Fire. He then snatched the items (that were somehow not burned) from their remains and exclaimed "Mine!"
With their master's reincarnation identified, the lamas hoisted the smiling Pugna on their shoulders, wrapped him in their former master's regalia, and rushed him to the throne before his mood could change. Within five years, the temple itself was another pile of ash, which pleased Pugna to no end.
As an elderly being, Pugna captured a malevolent netherdrake named Viper from the luminous caverns of the Nether Reaches where the toxic drakes thrived for millions of years. The sadistic wizard hoped to tame this beast, casting enchainments and dark sorceries to make it submit to him. Unbeknownst to him was the netherdrake's intentional submission to his magic and bondage—the netherdrake had hoped to learn his master's practices. During Viper's enslavement, Pugna was also practicing the art of magical augmentation, which Viper observed with great interest.
Viper would soon learn that some of his master's sorceries were deadly for him to endure, and so he sought immediate escape. Exuding an acid that melted the bars of his cage, he set himself free and spat poison in Pugna's eyes before escaping his prison. As for Pugna, it would seem that he has survived being poisoned by the most toxic creature alive, which may be the reason why he became a skeleton. Alongside his other nefarious goals, he now seeks to reclaim his lost pet Viper.
Pugna had no interest in the battle between the Red Mist and Stonehall, neither did he have any significant influence on it. Instead, he sets himself against the Tyler Estate and the Quorum as a one mage army against the forces that seek to control magic, before finally setting his sights on Weeping Rose when they both have been burned to ash.
Pugna acts as a proxy for Ix'yxa the Destroyer in finding new paths to the surface world for Ix'yxa to traverse. As a proxy, he wears a headpiece that holds the eye of Ix'yxa which carefully watches over him to make sure that he holds up his end of the deal.
In Artifact, Pugna has sworn allegiance to the Dire and its leader Kanna. Some of his responses towards her indicate that he wishes to replace her as the new leader of the Dire.
A Hero of the Dire is naturally aligned against the Radiant. He symphatizes with Kanna, who hates her mother Prellex.
The elderly Pugna took  Viper as a pet and as a test subject for deadly spells that he was working with. Viper poisoned his master and broke out of his bonds, swearing vengeance and enslavement on all who were like him. It would seem that Pugna survived the encounter (likely the reason why he now looks undead) and wishes to reclaim his pet.
As a part of a legacy of reincarnated masters of Oblivion, Pugna is well-trained in the Arts of Oblivion. He is also knowledgeable on the arts of magical augmentation.
All of Pugna's powers are applications of the Arts of Oblivion. Some of his powers were learned in the academy for the Arts of Oblivion, and some were his birthright as a reincarnation of his predecessor.
Nether Blast allows Pugna to summon a powerful blast of the Nether Reaches' emerald fire, reducing beings and structures alike into piles of ashes. Even as a baby, Pugna was able to use this (without any magic appurtenances) in the form of fire-gouts, which only grew stronger as he aged. It can be cast inside the target to destroy them from within.
Decrepify is a spell that Pugna has mastered in his childhood at the academy for the Arts of Oblivion. This spell will banish its target to the Nether Realm, causing them to become ethereal because of the implied spiritual existence of the place. Their ethereal status renders them unable to influence or be influenced by matters material, but it leaves them just as vulnerable as they were against magical or spiritual attacks.
Arguably one of his most annoying abilities, his  Nether Ward acts as a turret that automatically shoots blasts of Nether magic at nearby casters that dares to spend mana or other magic resources for casting spells in its presence.
Testimony to his greater power over his predecessors,  Life Drain allows Pugna to steal the lifeforce of others, channeling their essence into his being. Despite its power, it is implied to have a cooldown, which is removed by the power of  Aghanim's Scepter.
Allies meeting Pugna
Enemies killing Pugna
Others
