Quas orb with Sol Apex
Quas orb of the young Invoker
A crystal containing pure Quas energy
Quas is one of the three arcane energies of the elements in the lore of Dota 2.
Ice and cold are oft associated with preservation, stasis, forbearance, durability and many other properties related to the slowing, resisting, and ceasing of change. The grim season of winter is the time of slowness in nature—plants grow slower or even stop growing in the cold, animals cease their usual activities and hibernate to preserve their energy, and even that which is shapeless and flowing achieves stasis as it freezes into ice. Because of all this, the cold is often associated with states of stillness such as sleep, death, and equilibrium.
Speaking of equilibrium, the cold being associated with stillness not only applies to our relatively small planet, but it even applies to this cosmos. Case in point, the end of our universe which is the great equilibrium, brought about by none other than its Ancient Apparition: the heat death of the universe. This universe, a system so chaotic with its many processes and changes, tends to move towards equilibrium due to increasing entropy. Order from chaos. Therefore, it seems fitting that any decrease and absence of change belongs to the icy cold, thus the ice and cold elements are aligned to the  Strength attribute which resists change to preserve any that possess it. This is the essence of Quas.
Quas is an arcane energy that allows for the manipulation of ice elements and any properties related to immutability when using magic. Besides energy orbs that orbit the wielder, the cold arcanery of Quas may come in the form of magical crystals infused with said energy and its properties.
The following is a list of Quas' properties. Anything infused with Quas, from invoked spells to magical creatures exposed to its energies, may inherit these properties:

Pugna claims that all sorceries have their source in the Nether Reaches, but Quas and some of the icy spells that utilize it are channeled through this Conduit of all frost magics, this slow and massive Blueheart Glacier in Icewrack. The void is an essential ingredient in the arcane arts, including Quas.
Along with the Invoker's signature Wex and Exort orbs, the elemental magic orb of Quas makes an appearance (and a few uses) in the animated series Dota: Dragon's Blood. According to this series' writer, producer, and creator Ashley Miller; this iteration of the Invoker doesn't mostly rely on the orbs to cast some of his spells. He compares this version of the Invoker's orbs to a "magical Swiss Army knife" (suggesting at their versatility) that empowers spells and allows him to cast magics that require these orbs.
As the sole beloved offspring of the Invoker, Filomena inherits her father's sorcery, perhaps through his instruction. Hence, Filomena also wields the orbs of Quas, Wex, and Exort.
It wasn't just the way his magic is used that was changed. Apparently, Quas now has something to do with the essence of water. Listening to the sound effects of his Quas orb, one may hear its sounds of flowing and bubbly liquid. This might have something to do with the fact that Lirrak—the be-all and end-all element of water herself—also has dominion over ice as well. If this is the case, then Quas is now the Water elements in all of its three states: Solid, liquid and gas. Because of this, it's unknown if Dragon's Blood's version of Quas still has the original's properties of stillness, resistance, and whatnot, seeing how water is an element that is quite the opposite with its properties of mutability.
The following are all the instances of the arcane orb Quas being used or the appearances of the arcane orb Quas in the whole animated series, in chronological order.
His Quas orb was first shown in the yellow-green pocket dimension that he trapped Fymryn in, appearing alongside his other orbs. They did not do much besides float around her. The hidden sage seemingly spoke to her through his orbs, but perhaps these orbs are him. When he chose to reveal himself, all three orbs flew up and converged on each other in a flash of magical light before his pocket dimension became sable. Just for a moment after his orbs converged and disappeared, his floating silhouette was briefly visible until it merged with his darkened dimension as quickly as it appeared, before he finally stepped out of the lightless space and appeared to her in the flesh.
All three orbs were orbiting him when the Invoker achieved astral projection to travel to Selemene's astral realm. It's possible that he needed them all to perform this feat.
The Invoker brought all three orbs with him when he confronted Vahdrak in his lair. It's unknown if he used any of them in the ensuing confrontation, since it wasn't shown.
Filomena first demonstrates her inherited sorcery by sending out all three orbs to tear a Radiant Ore specimen from its crash site, somewhere in a snowy montane place. The elemental orbs levitated it into the air before forming a purple containment bubble around it for protection and transport.
When the Invoker visited the Arc Warden in the Mad Moon, he was protected from the vacuum of space by a golden shield, and brought all three orbs with him, indicating that he was ready for any potential combat. During their fight, the Invoker attacked Zet with a handful of flames, the element of Exort.
Seeing that her father was in danger versus Zet, Filomena came to his rescue by using all three orbs to cast a teleportation spell that will bring her towards him to retrieve him.
Filomena prevented Bram, Davion, Marci, Mirana, Lina, and Luna from moving further into her home via trapping them inside a magical dome conjured with Exort, while Quas and Wex orbited the shield. But Mirana walked through it unimpeded with her divine powers, indicated by her eyes glowing bright yellow like the sun.
When Mirana mentions the Forge in the world before Experiment 12,403 to Filomena, who was discussing her plan with the Heroes to avert the upcoming cataclysm, Filomena fused all three orbs with the Archronicus to create a hologram of the current universe's version of the Forge that she can use to remotely control the true machine from.
The mental and mnemonic sorcery of  Invoke can be used to manipulate Quas energy. Spells invoked with Quas will inherit its elements and its properties.
Spells invoked by said mnemonic sorcery are also called hexes, incantations, and invocations, with no distinction between each of them.
The following is a comprehensive list of magical spells that use the icy energies and the resistant properties of Quas.
Cold Snap (also known as Sadron's Protracted Frisson or Quas Frigoris) is a crippling, elemental hex whose magical formula is  Quas Trionis.
The names “Cold Snap” or “Protracted Frisson” imply the spell briefly freezes a target by sapping their heat to chill them deeply, which may be prolonged by additional attacks.
As a spell solely composed and invoked of Quas, it draws upon its icy elements and its properties of immutability to briefly freeze targets and prolong its fleeting chill.
Ghost Walk (also known as Myrault's Hinder-Gast or Geist of Lethargy) is an invisibility invocation whose magical formula is two  Quas orbs and one  Wex.
This spell manipulates the ice and electrical energies around the caster, rendering their body invisible. As a result, an elemental imbalance will occur due to the opposite properties of Quas and Wex and the spell having more of the former than the latter. The imbalance manifests as an aura that slows both the caster and nearby enemies.
Ghost Walk draws upon Quas' properties to slow the movement of nearby enemies (just like what the spell's fancier names suggest), while Wex's properties of swiftness is dulled by the elemental imbalance, thus the spell also impedes its caster. Its self-crippling effects may be offset by having more of Wex's power active, though.
It's unknown where the spell sources its ability to turn the caster invisible. Here are two speculations for each of the two elements that compose this spell.
Tornado (also known as Claws of Tornarus or Wex cyclonus) is a disruptive wind spell whose magical formula involves invoking two  Wex and one  Quas.
The spell brings forth a big and fast moving tornado that sweeps up anything in its path. Suspended in the air by its whirling winds, victims are subject to its dizzying motion and heights until the tornado dissipates, causing them to plummet to their doom.
Wex provides the spell's winds and properties of motion, while Quas' properties may be involved in prolonging the tornado's life, thus extending its victims' airtime.
Regardless, this spell brings the power of the "White Waste" to the battlefield, creating a slippery wall of ice that emanates an aura of debilitating cold.
The spell draws upon Quas for its ice and the bitter cold that it emits to slow nearby victims, while Exort may be the one that makes the ice wall's aura deal damage.
Speaking of the White Waste, this place might be the cold northern realm of Icewrack, which is also known as the Frozen Waste. "White" may refer to its literal color, since the place is a desert of ice and snow. “Wrack” and “waste” are, in a way, synonymous. In that case, the spell of Ice Wall could be included in the Frozen Arts. This might be what the child Invoker actually meant when he calls upon ice and storm to create a wall of ice, since spells of the Frozen Arts channel the elements of Icewrack, such as ice and wind.
Forged Spirits (a.k.a. Culween's Most Cunning Fabrications, Ravagers of Armor and Will, and Grief Elementals) are created by invoking two  Exort and one  Quas.





It seems that not all Forged Spirits look the same. This young Invoker's subservient elementals assume the shapes of fiery dragon hatchlings.
Despite their different appearance, the fiery dragon whelp is still a Forged Spirit in nature, meaning that it's still an elemental
spirit that is forged from naught. It's unknown why Forge Spirits may differ in appearance or what makes them take on different forms.
Regardless, this means that Forge Spirits do not have a constant form and may be shaped by unknown factors.
Deafening Blast (also known as Buluphont's Aureal Incapacitator) is a spell that's invoked using one of each orb:  Quas,  Wex, and  Exort.
Using all three elements at once, this spell unleashes a mighty sonic wave that deafens those caught in its blast, leaving them reeling from the attack.
Gameplay wise, its Quas knocks back enemies, Wex disarms them, and Exort deals damage. Lorewise, Quas and Wex should be swapped since it fits their respective properties better.
The magic essence of Quas has an influence on incubating  Greevils still in their eggs. Quas' influence manifests on the Greevil baby which will inherit its determined properties.
An unknown shaman once healed Ursa by drawing healing power from the surrounding icicles, implying the ice element has healing properties that can be drawn upon like Quas.
All frost magics flow through the  Blueheart Conduit, from the Frozen Arts to the icy energy of Quas. Anyone who wields them are recipients of her gifts.
The  Invoker wields the energies of Quas alongside Exort and Wex. Together with his art of  Invoke, he can weave up to six well remembered spells that inherit Quas' element and properties together with the two other energies that he may use. These energies appear as the elemental spheres that orbit him, which heals him if he has them active.
Crystal Maiden might be a user of the arcane energy Quas for the following reasons:
Lich uses “frost magic” or “frost manipulation” for all of his ice spells. They come from the Conduit of Blueheart, who is also the conduit of Quas and any spells that use it.
Tiny's earthy body can be infused with the strength of glacial ice, granting him the power to lay his enemies to waste. It's possible that this power is the magic of Quas.
Tusk's spells that involve ice and cold include his  Ice Shards,  Tag Team, and  Frozen Sigil. Despite their frigid power, they have no explicit mention of Quas being used.
Winter Wyvern's  Cold Embrace is quite similar to Quas with its freezing, slowing, and healing. However, there's no explicit mention of Quas being used.
Known mages who are connected to the Invoker's spells that use the arcane energies of Quas include Buluphont, Culween, Koryx, Myrault, Sadron, and Tornarus.
The Dark Magus Gallaron might be a user of Quas since the orb for this arcane energy orbits his in-game model.
The Blueheart Glacier of Icewrack is the conduit through which all frost magics of the world flow, including Quas and some spells that use it.
Quas is featured on Ultimyr Academy's insignia. This is related to the fact that Ultimyr once taught its students how to  Invoke, which is complementary with Quas, Wex, and Exort.
An injured and freezing  Ursa was healed by an unknown shaman who bound parts of his life-force to the nearby icicles. He now proudly wears a full set of fur armour attached with the same spellbound ice as a trophy of his victory over death. Ice having innate healing properties that are accessible via magic might be a connection to Quas.
The eggs of  Greevils can be exposed to essences like Quas to influence the incubating hatchling. Once hatched, the Greevil babe will inherit Quas' resolute properties.
Runes are forged of the most fundamental magic. It's unknown what this fundamental magic is, but the following info is speculation that divines what it may be.
