The Runes of Power are a mystical resource in the world of Dota 2.
For uncounted aeons, the origins of the Runes of Power remained unknown and unknowable to all who attempt to divine their origins. Even the gods who can comprehend mysteries beyond mortal knowledge know little about them. They are mysterious to all but an aspect of the Primordial Consciousness named Zet, who can casually create these runes out of thin air. All of these runes are forged from the most fundamental magic, which is possibly the elements of Quas, Wex, and Exort (see the Runes section below for the reasoning) Despite the crystalline appearance, runes are implied to be immaterial or ethereal objects.
When collected with an enchanted Bottle, the runes seem to enjoy going in the bottle for unknown reasons.
Pugna claims that all magics have their source in the Nether Reaches. Aether (also known as void and nothingness) is an essential ingredient in the arts of the arcane, including the Runes of Power. This may be supported by Void Spirit who states that these magical runes come from the void or contain the essence of the void itself.
The  Arcane Rune infuses the user's abilities with its arcane energy, reducing the costs of using magic. The  Arcane Blink has what appears to be an Arcane Rune attached on top of its handle, granting the item its revitalizing properties and the ability to help its user bear the weight of arcane expenditure.
The  Bounty Rune grants gold, but the gold it bestows is said to be different from normal gold, hinting at the gold's mystical or extraordinary properties.
Once it is consumed, the  Double Damage Rune can infuse the user with power that allows them to hit twice as hard.
The red  Haste Rune imbues the user with increased speed. The speed even extends to their heartbeat, suggesting that it even makes the internal body go faster.
The  Illusion Rune creates two identical copies of the user who are under their progenitor's control.
When used, the  Invisibility Rune will turn its user invisible. A single Invisibility Rune can work on two separate entities at once.
The  Regeneration Rune infuses its user with its regenerative power. In some cases, it would seem that the rune itself does not heal the user, but it taps into whatever source of their healing they have to heal them instead. This includes:
The rune even works on those of the void or aether element, allowing it to restore the pure nothingness within the Void Spirit or renew the void-shadow flesh of the Enigma. It can even restore the powers of those who consume this rune. Despite this immense power, it is said to have its limits. One of these limits might include its inability to regenerate Clinkz's lost flesh.
Water Rune holds the element of water, which is said to be the essence of the material plane. The effects of this rune in the lore is unknown.
