The Scaled Knights of Uthorian are an ancient and obscure order of dragon knights in the lore of Dota 2.
Judging by the name, the knights of this order are characterized by scales, dragon scale in particular when one considers the context surrounding the few mentions of this knighthood. One of the order's renowned members, Sir Davion, wears a suit of dragon-armor and wields a dragon-scale shield that are both made from Slyrak himself, implying that his fellow knights also wear suits of armor made from a dragon's scales and carry dragon-forged equipment just like him. This is why they're called the "scaled knights" which is a fancier word for a dragon knight. It's currently unknown who or what this "Uthorian" entity is.
To the right is Thesos' drawing of a broken shield that he found in a young dragon's insides. Once he pieced it together, Thesos recognized this shield and the Dragon crest that is emblazoned on it: a knight's shield with the seal of the Scaled Knights of Uthorian. The shield resembles the one that Sir Davion wields by default which he states is the dragon scale shield of Slyrak. Since the shield of Slyrak looks like this sundered shield, the dragon's crest of the Scaled Knights of Uthorian might be depicting Slyrak himself, thus they are represented by Slyrak.
Contradicting this is the appearance of the same dragon crest (albeit in a lighter color of red) in another shield that Davion carried to battle against Time-Dragon Uldorak long before he had the shield of Slyrak. This implies that the dragon symbol does not depict Slyrak so much as a generic dragon crest. Although it's possible that the crimson version of this crest on the shield of Slyrak is unique to said shield only (and it still depicts Slyrak) in order to differentiate it from other shields or objects of the order that also bear this seal.


Their dragon crest is also displayed on their banners, such as the ones in Davion's camp to the left picture. Aside from these banners, they also have a recurring dragon's motif in their property, such as the dragon head bow on Davion's wooden boat. The recurring dragon motif possibly symbolizes the order's dedication to their dragon-based occupation.
According to Thesos, this ancient knight's order can be seen (albeit rarely) around the lands owned by Thesos' father in the present age. Their presence was indicated by a broken shield of Uthorian that he found in the guts of a dead young dragon. The business that they have in those lands are unknown, but the unknown knight who owned that shield may have been there to hunt the local dragons in the area.
According to the  Tome of Knowledge, dragon knights never charge for their services.
A dragon knight can only be successful in battle against dragons if they have mastered themselves. Only then can they achieve mastery against dragons as well.
To a dragon knight, mastery of the self includes valor, strong faith in one's abilities, and a sharp mind even during the chaos of battle.
Between their sword and shield, the latter is more important because dragons always strike first, which is almost a guaranteed death. Those who follow this boast few scars.
Like most knighthoods, the aspect of honor is a trademark among the Scaled Knights of Uthorian. Knights are expected to live and die with their honor intact.
For the Scaled Knights, there is no honor to be gained in slaying dragons who are unable to fight back. There are some exemptions to this, such as mercy killing.
Dragons slain by them in battle are posthumously honored via forging their remains into battle equipment, which are marks of distinction for the knight who earned it.
Little is known about the structure and hierarchy (assuming they have one) of the Scaled Knights of Uthorian. Not even their head count is known, save for one member of this order.
Dragon Knight is heavily implied to be a knight of the Scaled Knights of Uthorian. As shown above, his belongings and equipment bears their distinguished dragon's crest. Despite having the lifeblood of his order's enemy, he still carries their crest in his camp and gear. It's possible he was exiled from his knighthood for his condition, hence his loneliness.
Dawnbreaker is curious about the reaction of Sir Davion's fellow knights to his failure in killing Slyrak and the ironic fusion that happened after.
Slyrak was one of the named dragons hunted by the Scaled Knights, the sole knight dispatched to kill him being Sir Davion. He was hunted for years for unknown reasons.
Thesos knows the ancient Scaled Knights of Uthorian and recognizes their symbol. He states they are rarely seen in the lands of his father in the present times.
