Siltbreaker is...
In the deepest recess of Dark Reef prison, a dormant evil stirs—the fiendish Siltbreaker—waking to thoughts of freedom and a campaign of retribution to come. Only in the heart of the Kalabor Desert might we find the means to stop him... Our final chance to seize a shard of hope.
As the fiend Siltbreaker plots an escape from Dark Reef prison, his enemies in the Conclave of the Brine assemble a band of warriors to take up arms against him. For the adventurers who answer the Conclave's call, the road to Dark Reef begins near the sands of Kalabor, where Siltbreaker's twisted creation, Rhyzik the Corruptor, gathers strength to aid his master's plans...
Siltbreaker's escape attempt did not go unnoticed Rhyzik the Corruptor has resurfaced to aid his master's revival. Rhyzik has long eluded us — Destroy him before infiltrating Dark Reef. End these threats to the Conclave — Our ledger will be cleared of your name.
With Rhyzik the Corruptor defeated and a measure of Siltbreaker's might destroyed, the first step of the Conclave's mission is complete. Free of Rhyzik's swarms, the people of Kalabor are free to return home or establish a new homeland amidst the pacified Weald.
As the Conclave's defenders step through the wisp emissary’s portal, an uncertain fate lies before them. They journey now to their true purpose: Infiltrate Dark Reef prison by any means necessary... And ensure Siltbreaker never leaves.
A descent to the main gates of Dark Reef would mean certain death for a drylander. But there is a way that circumvents the crushing depths. The final journey to Siltbreaker's vault begins amidst the windswept snows of Bitter Ridge...
The chosen of the Brine had seen their purpose through. The fiend Siltbreaker was no more. With their old enemy finally destroyed, and a good portion of the sea-bred’s worst offenders gone with him, the Conclave could ensure the dryland armistice would hold, and perhaps even forge a true peace between the Mer and the lands above.
For a time, Dark Reef prison would lie empty, save for those small creatures unconcerned with the suffering of the sentient. As for the chosen themselves... their debts to the Conclave absolved, the four wayward mercenaries were free to scatter once again into the wind. To meet again on another battlefield, perhaps as friend... or foe.

