The Dead God is a deity who wreaks destruction on the living. It commands legions of followers, who subscribe to the Dead God's "poisonous nihilosophy". Armies march in the name of the Dead God, invading and conquering lands. The Dead God wields a wand.
The Dead God sends out the Dirge, a baleful sound that incites the dead, consumes the living and converts them to his service. One such convert was  Undying, his foremost herald, tasked with rallying the dead across the world against the living. The turned undead are so numerous that the armies of the Dead God can be recognized by their armors of their former nations.
The armies of the Dead God went forth to Turstarkuri, raising the dead of previous invaders and laying waste to the lowland kingdoms. There, they proceeded to the mountain monastery, where the Monks of Turstarkuri resided in meditation. The monks believed the invaders to be mere illusions, and were slain on the spot. Only a young acolyte, the future  Anti-Mage, managed to escape. The slain monks rose as undead, and joined the Dead God's priesthood.
Long ago, a scion of the Dead God led an army of dead, but was betrayed by her minions, who sought to return to their slumber. One undead champion in her army wore the Searing Dominator.
The Dead God is opposed by the Cathedral of Rumusque, whose clerics seek to purge the land of its corruption. Hundreds of years ago, the Rumusque priestess Crella sought to bind the Dead God's lieutenants in the Chains of Abscession. But her chains were eventually corrupted by the Dirge, and fell under the Dead God's command, destroying Crella's homeland. The Chains were later discovered and acquired by  Pudge, which the Dead God regards as theft. He demands the Chains be returned, but Pudge refuses to oblige.
The Fields of Endless Carnage, once corrupted by the Dead God, was recently cleansed by the Rumusque clerics following a pilgrimage there.
