The Death Bounty text is an ancient document that decreed the earliest instance of last hitting or Last Strike, a martial tradition that is now common among every contested kingdom with the capacity to pay their armed forces with each killing blow they land, and duelling, another martial tradition now common but exclusive to the armies of Stonehall.
It was first decreed by Lord Regent Urthic Laste of Stonehall in an unknown date, long before the time of the incumbent Emperor Galanius given its age. Since it was a regent of Stonehall who enacted this, it is implied that Urthic was acting in place of the real sovereign who may have been rendered unable to govern Stonehall. That being said, it is unknown who was the real authority before him.
First found in the ruins of the Stonehall Cartularium, this text was written on parchment with a lost language that had to be translated before it was recorded, hinting at its age. The document was found incomplete, leaving most of its mysteries safe from the world.
The document explains the procedures of Death Bounty, exclusive to the armies of Stonehall, a tradition where soldiers are paid a bounty for each killing blow that they successfully land upon a foe. Of course, the payment is made after the battle (not during the battle) where each "coterie" is responsible for counting and dividing the money among themselves to use it for upkeep and buying miscellaneous equipment.
It also explains what appears to be the first recorded instance of duelling, yet another common tradition that is exclusive to the armies of Stonehall even today, but practiced upon anyone that they challenged. The document implies that duelling was not just a way to challenge an enemy in single combat, but a way to solve disputes. In this case, duels are used to solve disputes between two soldiers of Stonehall who may have an issue between their last hits. The winner between the two will claim the total share of their opponent. If a duel ends with the death of one participant, recompense will be made, but what this recompense is for is unknown since the document is cut off at that part.
