The Impurities, as their name implies, are the impure elements of nature's core in the world of Dota 2.
The evil Impurities are the impure elements that make up the hinterland at the innermost part of all nature, akin to how our nature is composed of the elements. Despite the Impurities being, well, impure, they can be "distilled to their essence" for some reason, contradicting their inherent impurity. Leshrac only mentions the said purification of his Impurities once he has been reincarnated, but it's not yet known what this distillation has to do with his reformation process.
The reality of all nature, according to the nihilosopher Leshrac, is all about torment and decay. As the elements of the core of nature, the Impurities embody all of these evil truths of the cosmos, such as torment and suffering; as well as pollution and corrosion. These Impurities embody chaos and hence they are the stuff of disorder in nature.
According to Leshrac, our form generally comes from the heart of all nature, which might explain the names of said realm. As the elements of the world that is the body's genesis, the Impurities may have a contribution to the creation of a being's body. This may explain why Leshrac knows the truth that all of nature is undergoing an existence of torment that they have yet to realize until they see the foul truth of reality for themselves. If the Impurities had a hand in providing our very forms, then we all may have traces of their influence, which is why all of nature turns out to be tormented like Leshrac all along...
Upon reviving, Leshrac mentions witless elements that restore his life, which possibly refers to the Impurities. It is unknown why they are witless, but it is known that they wield healing properties (which can be tapped into via  Regeneration runes) and the ability to resurrect him. Apparently, the life that these Impurities give to him is unnatural.
Like the elements that make up all nature, the Impurities are the elements that form reality's foul foundation. With these evil, blasted, tormented, and corrupted elements, the horrible hinterland that the Impurities constitute mirrors all of its elements' properties. The following are the four Impurities:
All four Impurities are akin to the elements of air, water, fire, and earth, respectively; and they all seem to correspond with the four states of matter: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma.
So far,  Leshrac is the only Hero (let alone character) in Dota 2 with a relationship to the Impurities. His connection with these elements are rooted deep into his being.
The Chronoptic Crystals might a conduit of the Impurities, since they channel Chronoptic energies through them, implied to be an Impurity in the “List of Impurities” section.
