Thunderhides are a species of beasts in the Dota 2 world. They resemble a cross between a triceratops and an ankylosaurus.
The Thunderhides migrate in packs to Roseleaf from unknown locations every year for unknown purposes. Some Thunderhides can be found in the Kalabor Desert, where they are hunted by the Marrowfell tribe.
Thunderhides are massive and thus powerful creatures, dwarfing even an adult male centaur. The largest ones are called Thunderhide Alphas. They can slam the earth with their massive bodies and spiked tails to cause a damaging shockwave that throws lesser foes off their footing.
As for their durability, the Thunderhides have thick skin and overlapping scales on the back area. Because of its durability, their skin is sometimes fashioned into leather armor that is resistant to bladed weapons. Beyond the head of a Thunderhide are its two bony frills: the front frill that covers the neck and the back frill which covers a portion of their back area. Striking behind the frill that covers the neck can kill it. Young thunderhides appear to lack this natural armor, making them vulnerable. Despite these vulnerabilities, Grek states these beasts have a fast regeneration ability, making them difficult to kill in prolonged fights. It's unknown how much of their own bodies can they regenerate.
A strange ability that they possess is the ability to work themselves and other creatures into a frenzy via unknown methods. Their heart produces heartbeats loud enough to be heard outside of their body, creating a rhythm akin to war drums. However, this ability has been transferred to their rumblehide relatives and it's unknown if this affects the lore or not.
Thunderhides are often seen in camps with rumblehides, a smaller, related species.
Grek's vast menagerie of exotic creatures in White Spire includes Thunderhides. They have escaped their pens and it is up to poor Hobgen to wrangle these beasts before they level all of New Tenebrous.
They are hunted by the Centaurs of the Marrowfell tribe, lead by the  Centaur Warrunner. Each year, the Marrowfell Hunters gallop to the land of Roseleaf to anticipate the annual Thunderhide migration and hunt them down there. The goal of this expedition is to test the skill and endurance of the tribe's finest trackers, but the ultimate prize of the hunt is to claim the horn of a Thunderhide Alpha.
On the other hand, the  Beastmaster does not approve of the Marrowfell's safari. He seeks to drive away or destroy the poachers to protect the majestic Thunderhides.
