An ethereal rift appears within an oblivious nation's walls, giving way to Vrogros the Underlord and the legions of the Abyssal Horde. With a commanding presence as wide as his girth, the Lord of the Abyss finally sets foot from the subterranean Aziyog into the surface world with the vile intent of destroying or conquering it all, having exhausted the lands offered by the underground world.
His monstrous figure and power may stand out to all, but none can foresee his sudden and unpredictable arrival as he paves an unhindered path for himself and his armies to set foot into the sunlit world that shall soon be claimed for dark purpose.
Deep below the surface of the world lay unknown wonders and horrors. Down and down again, well beneath the slithering magma fields and simmering roots of dormant volcanoes stands the obsidian city of Aziyog, its incomparable stonework spanning an endless cavern. Within honeycomb walls mortared with the bones of countless slaves lies the domain of the Abyssal Horde, and their brutal underlord Vrogros.
Vrogros hails from the subterranean city of Aziyog, which is situated underneath the magma chambers of dormant volcanoes that give this city its obsidian structure. This powerful beast has already conquered all the lands that the underground world can offer, but this lord was never satisfied with mere regional conquest. With his mastery over the arts of the Dark Rift, Vrogros bends even space to his will to transport himself and his armies without the delays of distance and time, bringing them to the world on the surface where its nations and their inhabitants are ripe for the taking.
The first few forces of the Abyssal Horde have already walked through his rift—mere scouting parties and fodder meant to test the might of the nations above. With the knowledge imparted from their encounters, Vrogros himself finally walks through the ethereal rift to lead the charge of the Abyssal Horde as he makes his presence known to the surface world with the intent to conquer the lands before and beyond the horizon, while making the most out of the survivors of his unholy holocaust by making them his slaves or burning them in the hearth of Aziyog.
In this strange timeline, Vrogros has yet to enter and conquer the surface world. He is currently planning his assault on Stonehall, but it also appears that he has formed an unholy alliance with the demon lords of the Court of Ristul.
After agreeing with the other lords to split power into three ways, Vrogros rules over the Court of Ristul alongside  Shadow Fiend and B'Kor. It may not be said that they do enjoy working together, but they are allied regardless and must keep their allegiance to maintain power over the court.
Vrogros has his own cult of fiends who look just like him with their scaled bodies that resemble four-legged creatures and their small faces on heads that have a pair of horns, implying that he belongs to a species of monsters. They can be seen in the Ascension comic for the Eminence of Ristul and in the card game Artifact Foundry in a card called Ozkavosh Horror. It's unknown if they are actually demons however, since the card has no lore to say anything about it beyond its title.
With hostile intentions on the nation of Stonehall, it is only natural for the vengeful  Legion Commander to be ill-disposed towards him.
Vrogros' status as one of the usurpers of the Court of Ristul's positions of power makes him a target to  Queen of Pain who seeks to reclaim her seat in the demonic court.
Worshippers of  Mars have sent many prayers to him asking for Vrogros' death. Having heard all of these prayers, Mars is hostile towards him.
Siltbreaker plans to kill Vrogros in time.
Vrogros' status as a demon is quite ambiguous. Perhaps he is actually an earthbound demon—demons who roam the material plane more than their respective hells. On the other hand, Vrogros may have been decreed a demon rather than being born as one.
Vrogros has a strange body. His two front feet on his lower torso are actually his hands (hence the knuckles) and there are crystalline outgrowths all over his body, likely sustained from his exposure to the subterranean world where emeralds are abundant.
The soul cutting  Abyssal Blade was once in Vrogros' possession before he somehow lost it due to unknown means. He replaced it with the default runic blade that we can see on his person, but he expresses his joy upon retrieving it.
Vrogros claimed the Emerald Conquest as a prize of war after a battle for the middle reaches of the Emerald Abyss. The glow of this blade is said to be so bright that one can see it from afar in the farthest borders of his obsidian dominion.
Vrogros' brute strength belies his mastery in the arts of the Dark Rift. Judging by its name and its demonstrated uses, the arts of Dark Rift seem to focus on manipulating the fabric of reality and its aspects, such as space.
Reaching into the Abyss, Vrogros calls down a  Firestorm to burn down everything in his wake. The Dark Rift arts might be used to summon this flame from below to bring it to the surface via teleportation.
Pit of Malice compliments his powerful area controlling abilities. Vrogros' hatred is so powerful, it can manifest outside the mind and have an effect on his surroundings by twisting the very seams of reality to paralyze his enemies within a pit that leads to the bottomless abyss.
Enemies in his presence can feel his  Atrophy Aura draining the conviction of battle from their souls, causing them to falter in battle.
The pinnacle of his dark arts,  Dark Rift grants him pseudo-omnipresence with the ability to teleport himself and his vast army with him by conjuring an ethereal portal that leads to his target destination. With  Aghanim's Scepter, Vrogros gains access to a new ability:  Fiend's Gate. Lorewise, it appears to be similar to its progenitor ability with its use of dual rifts to access two points in space and move freely between them. The description for this ability implies that Dark Rift has a limitation to its range and Fiend's Gate mitigates its limits. However, its exact limitation is not stated anywhere in the lore.
Allies meeting Underlord
Enemies killing Underlord
Others
