



Viper the Netherdrake is a single specimen of the prehistoric netherdrake species who dwells in the subterranean Nether Reaches, widely feared for their extremely potent poisons and acid exudate.
After a traumatizing experience of captivity from a certain sadistic and dominating practitioner of dark sorcery, Viper swears to reciprocate the suffering that he received by enslaving all magicians in his future menagerie as retribution for his suffering under the bonds of magecraft and those who wield it, while wielding the same powers that contributed to his suffering.
The unlucky victim of a sadistic sorcerer's attempts to capture a netherdrake as a pet from the sealed luminous caverns of the Nether Reaches, Viper would soon realize that his freedom was the start of his enslavement. Malevolent in nature, Viper hoped to learn from the dark magics of his captor, purposely submitting to his spells to learn them on a practical and painfully physical level.
Although he could endure most of his spells, he soon realized that some of them were too potent for him to deal with. Not wanting to risk his life any longer, he corroded the bars of his cage and spit poison in his captor's eyes before finally setting himself loose upon the world.
Years after his escape, the joy that Viper felt from his escape soon faded into ennui. He felt that his existence was hollow due to the fact that his captor still remained in this world. He flew away to take revenge on Pugna once more to ease his trauma, but quickly realized that Pugna was just a part of a bigger problem that he had been missing on. Viper's hollow existence was filled with an evil realization: why enslave his former master when he could enslave all who were just like him? So many magicians like him summon familiars and grant them the blessing of life, only to let them live it all in servitude. And many more immerse themselves in magic for the purpose of controlling others. Viper could not stand the thought of that.
Thus was Viper enlightened. He soared out with a new purpose to enslave all who practice the vile arts of sorcery and keep them like pets in his menagerie of magicians. He has not forgotten Pugna, for he is naught but a pet that he shall soon imprison among the others who are just like him.
In Underlords, Viper seems to respect those who disdain magic, such as the  Anti-Mage. He also seems to be concerned with what Ethreain did to  Winter Wyvern.
Pugna enslaved the netherdrake and kept him as his pet. He now seeks vengeance against him for the trauma he experienced under his servitude.
Viper is on a crusade against magic and is hostile towards anyone who practices it. In Artifact, he seeks to enslave the sorcerers  Lich and  Crystal Maiden.  Chen's powers of enthrallment has piqued his interest, and he wishes to make him the keeper of his menagerie. He also wants to keep the  Enchantress as a pet.
In Artifact, he seems to dislike Kanna and Prellex. He dislikes the former for her mind control powers and sees her mother to be no different from her.
In Underlords, Viper encourages the elemental sisters Rylai and  Lina to kill each other.
Likely as a coincidence, Viper seeks to claim the magical city of Weeping Rose, much like his former master Pugna.
Viper has the physiology of a typical netherdrake, but what makes him unique among his species is the presence of magic in his poison, likely obtained from enduring the spells of his former master.
He is also one of the few Heroes of Dota 2 to undergo bodily augmentations, having taken such interests from observing his former master's skill in it. Through a combination of the right sequence of spells and a great amount of suffering from tests on himself and many trial victims, Viper has managed to augment his body with a magic hood and a stinger on his arched tail. These augmentations make him confident enough to return to the Nether Reaches to reign as the most poisonous creature alive, but first he must verify the rumors of a secret passage to the now sealed caverns where his kin lives.
Viper is not a sophisticated Hero. He lacks any kind of versatility or complex abilities—all he can do is exude poison of varying potency and dosages from the orifices of his body. That is not to say that he is not a deadly creature, however. He has learned deadly spells from his master Pugna, including spells that he used for the augmentation of his body and poisons.  It's possible that these magics are the same brand that Pugna is versed in: the Arts of Oblivion.
The description for his  Poison Attack states that this ability intensifies his already powerful toxic spit. It's possible that Viper's magic enhances his poison breath, hence the mana cost required for its use.
Nethertoxin is a much more widespread application of his inborn poison as he spews a large amount of it to create a pool of poison. The lore for this ability describes the potency of his poison: it is so powerful that any fatigue or injury sustained from his poison can be lethal.
The  Corrosive Skin of a netherdrake can exude an infectious toxin to corrode those who are foolish enough to strike him at melee range. Against magical attacks, Viper's exposure to his erstwhile master's magic has hardened his body against it. The description also states that the exuding acid contributes to his magic resistance, possibly cleansing the effects of magic from his body in an acid wash.
The most powerful poison that he can produce,  Viper Strike's lore implies that this poison is a hemotoxin because it is said to spread through the veins and hence the bloodstream.  This is the same infection that he used to slay his master.
Allies meeting Viper
Enemies killing Viper
Others
