A measured rhythm of thudding sounds and the clinking of a chained lantern heralds the presence of Demnok Lannik, the Warlock of Ultimyr Academy. The obsessiveness of this strange bookman has turned him into a vessel of forbidden knowledge, and from that knowledge springs forth the dark mysteries of the arcane world that shall aid his grateful allies or dispose his unlearned enemies.
Demnok Lannik is the Chief Curator and Head of Acquisitions of the Ultimyr Academy's vast arcane archives. His job is to acquire new texts to expand the archives' vast storage of knowledge and oversee the archives' contents for safekeeping. Unlike most people, Demnok has an unhealthy passion for his profession. Most unenthusiastic people would be content to not throw their lives away for their work, some may dedicate their being to their profession to an extent that doesn't kill them, but Demnok's stubbornness has risked his life over and over again in the pursuit of lost knowledge in the depths of danger, fueled by even the slightest rumor of its existence.
Eventually, his investigations for lost texts have often triggered the wrath of protector entities, compelling him to master sorcery in order to counter any attempts on his life while he continues his research. With the same passion for his work, he enrolled in the same academy that he was in and became the academy's most powerful Warlock ever known in less time than most practitioners required to complete a course of undergraduate work. To equip himself as a Warlock, he carved a staff out of Dreadwood, summoned into a demon spirit from the Outer Hells, and bound it to his staff—all of that done as an afterthought. Now that he is well equipped for his endeavors, Demnok has commenced writing his Black Grimoire: the ultimate and composite body of all arcane knowledge that this world has managed to comprehend and record.
When he isn't searching for lost tomes, the Archivist Demnok serves as the archives' watchful warden. Demnok's slogan, "All Who Borrow Must Return", encourages borrowers to return their books lest they be visited by a dark presence sealed within his evil purse.
His dedication to the pursuit of knowledge has greatly expanded the Academy's archives of arcane information, earning him the tentative respect of the Academy's faculty.
Outside of his work, Demnok aspires to earn a seat among the council of thirty one wizards who all govern over Weeping Rose. He also wishes to return the Oglodi to prominence, possibly aspiring to restore the intellectual and esoteric Oglodi before they were destroyed by the Tarnsmen.
Demnok is well respected among the faculty of Ultimyr Academy for his efforts, despite their concerns for his strange interest in demonology and dark magic.
According to the  Invoker's younger self, he claims to know Demnok's great, great...great ancestor who was also employed in Ultimyr Academy, hinting that Demnok belongs to a long lasting lineage of academic professionals who are all dedicated to Ultimyr.
Although  Axe has long distanced himself from the Oglodi, he approves fighting alongside some of them, including Demnok. He also regrets killing them for as long as they're not from the Red Mist. On the other hand, Demnok dislikes Axe's illiteracy which he seeks to resolve if Axe does well.
Disruptor respects Demnok as a wise Oglodi, but he believes that he is misguided.
Bristleback generalizes and respects the Oglodi for their toughness, not exempting the bookish Demnok.
Demnok has inquired  Ogre Magi about his wisdom and magic. On the other hand, Aggron likes Demnok, sometimes addressing him as Mr. Warlock. He also likes playing with his demon summon.
Demnok has been mocked by true demons, who are implied to be greater than the inferior demons that he controls. For their mockery, he wishes to bring their comeuppance with a greater item of power that may teach even devils how to beg.
His pursuit for knowledge in the field of demonology has not gone unnoticed. The Earthbound demon Anessix wants to punish Demnok for revealing too many secrets.
As revealed in Underlords,  Rubick is Demnok's rival, although the former may not be aware of it. Demnok asserts that he should be the true heir of Aghanim and not Rubick.
His signature appurtenance is a tall staff that makes up his recognizable silhouette. He himself carved this staff out of Dreadwood and engraved it with hellish runes to conduct his dark magics. The top of the staff is alight with fire that he can shoot at his opponents, but its true power lies within the staff itself: a captured soul of a demon that lies in wait until it's finally summoned to wreak havoc. This staff may be replaced with a gemstone staff that can hold demon spirits in each of the gem's facets.
Demnok owns a pair of bracers that are imbued with persuasive powers that can turn unwilling pages, likely referring to sentient books or a metaphor for stubborn people that he might investigate for information. He also owns a scary looking purse that is said to contain something ominous (likely a demon that he usually plucks from the depths), but this may just be a false warning to scare negligent borrowers. He may wear a uniform resistant to fungal growth, cobwebs, and curses to protect him from the dangers of browsing the Ultimyr Archives. This uniform comes with a shroud that protects the skull from being invaded by a bookwyrm species that skulks around the archives.
Besides his default Dreadwood staff, Demnok owns a staff fitted and coiled with the dismembered hand of an otherworldly being, acquired as a result of an unsuccessful ritual. This ritual required weeks of incantations to open a rift beyond the mortal realm and consort with the beings outside. A burning tear in the material plane appeared and released an awful roar before a giant hand reached out from the flame. Whatever being that owned the hand could not see beyond the rift and accidentally disrupted the ritual that provided it access in the first place, causing the gateway to close in on the hand and sever it from its owner forever.
He is skilled in constructing golems. One in particular is a headless golem made of obsidian with lava pouring out of the hole where the head is supposed to be. He is also a skilled artificer, being able to create wards that watch for mundane intrusions and Infernal interruptions that may disrupt his studies on the arcane.
Over the many years of his career, Demnok has summoned and enslaved the many evil spirits that dwell in the Outer Hells. He keeps these demons in a Dreadwood staff inscribed with hellish runes. Only a few of his demons are known by name, and even then their true names in Ozkavosh are unknown to him up till this day. So far, he can only control lesser demons, but the Umbral Glyph might allow him to control the greater demons beyond them.
Demnok has a rudimentary understanding of Ozkavosh due to a lack of native speakers who could help him learn it. He currently speaks broken Ozkavosh, causing others who are familiar with the language to mock him.
One notable demon in his repertoire is Ishul-Shog the Watcher, named after the massive eye that makes up most of its head. He has studied for many years to construct the true name of this demon, hoping to invoke its name and bind a demon powerful enough to know and speak Ozkavosh. Unfortunately, the Watcher has no tongue.
Fitting for his role as an Intelligence hero, Demnok's power came naturally to him thanks to his thorough and obsessive study of the arcane arts. His brand of sorcery is the Warlock's arcane arts, learned from his studies in Ultimyr Academy. Those who underestimate him for his bookish ways will soon feel the final chapter of their lives closed upon them.
Fatal Bonds is an ancient incantation that links the vital energies of multiple lifeforms into one collective body. The victim that was first inflicted with this spell will act as a catalyst that will spread the damage it takes to other people who were caught in its vicinity when it was cast. It is said that this spell must be feared by the demons that he cannot enslave.
Learned from his studies in becoming a Warlock,  Shadow Word is a versatile incantation that is said to have a myriad of uses, from healing and enchanting his allies to inflicting a damaging curse on his opponents. However, its description implies that Shadow Word is not a singular spell due to it being referred to with a plural pronoun, sc. "them", but rather a set of incantations with various uses. If this is the case, then Demnok may be casting separate spells of the Warlock arcane arts to heal and enchant or to curse, rather than using an all-in-one spell.
Channelling his power, Demnok manipulates space-time over a large area to cause an  Upheaval that can mire entire armies at once. It's possible that this spell's effect is caused by time dilation, hence the slowing debuff from affecting space-time, but the visual effects of this spell and some of his voice lines for this spell suggest otherwise. Rather than causing a time dilation, it appears that he is warping space-time to create a vortex of ghostly arms from another realm that scrapes and claws at those in its area of effect to slow them.
Chaotic Offering allows Demnok to call upon a captive demon spirit in his staff to ruin enemy formations with its burning aura. Although he has gathered a menagerie of demonic familiars over the years, he can only summon one demon at a time.  Aghanim's Scepter allows him to summon two demons at once. Because of their status as lesser demons, they have a temporary presence on the material plane and they will expire before returning to the staff that keeps their soul to be summoned again.
Allies meeting Warlock
Enemies killing Warlock
Enemies dying to Warlock
Others
