




When the storm clouds gather to darken the sunniest days and the clearest skies, the only illumining light in the heavens will be the lightning of Zeus, the almighty Lord of Heaven and father of gods. Divorced, banished, and depowered by his divine wife from his own pantheon to live a mortal's life after being caught laying with too many mortal women, he now fights in the war of the Ancients to prove himself worthy of his wife Hera and his long-lost divinity and immortality.
Descending from the heavens and his mountain cloister, Zeus' arrival in the greatest battlefield in all of the Seven Planes and time and space heralds a forecast of heavenly lightning bolts with a chance of arcing electricity and global smiting, shaking the already fragile world of mortals and even the heavens above with such celestial powers contained in a single mortal vessel.
Zeus is the king and father of the gods, who also treats all Heroes as if they were his unruly children. Despite this title, he has taken an unhealthy liking to mortal women and he has been caught cheating on his divine wife for an uncountable amount of trysts with mortal women. Growing weary of his two-timing impulses, Hera finally came up with an ultimatum: "If you love mortals so much, go and become one. If you can prove yourself faithful, then return to me as my immortal husband. Otherwise, go and die among your creatures." Zeus found her logic and her magic irrefutable, and agreed to her plan.
Most of his divine power was stripped away from him and he was ultimately rendered mortal to walk among them on the mundane world. Ever since he was demoted, he has been on his best behavior for the first time in his life—controlling his impulses and being somewhat fonder of his old immortality than he is of mortals. But to truly prove himself worthy of his wife Hera and ascend back into the heavens, he must continue to pursue victory on the field of battle.
Zeus was one of the many Heroes gathered in the Sundered Moon bar. He was on the bar's counter flirting with Medusa by telling her the tale (for the fifth time) where he entertained a den of the most enchanting creatures, which led to his divorce and depowerment.
Tired of talking about himself over and over again, Zeus encouraged Medusa to open up to him about any questions that she might have in mind for him and compliments her scarlet eyes, while rubbing the snakes on her hair. She accepts the compliment and asks if he has any children, to which Zeus replies with curiosity and pain from one of her snakes biting his finger. Medusa retracts the question, which assures Zeus that she has heard of the entire story. He also fakes being childless despite his potency and his many scandalous affairs.
With that being said, Zeus concludes their date with an invitation to his mountain cloister. But before his unenthusiastic lady could even reply, he gets interrupted by someone else calling him a talkative half-god from the back of the bar. Zeus confronts the mysterious figure, who is revealed to be the Arc Warden wearing a large cloak. Zet taunts the half-god with its superior origins, claiming that the Self came before the gods themselves. "Also before pronouns, by the sound of it." retorted Zeus, he interpreted Zet's words as an invitation to fight. The Self declares the half-god correct, stating that its purpose is to destroy the Ancients.
Zeus has had enough of this meaningless ebb and flow of talk. He points out Zet's ignorance to the bards' tales, saying that anyone it picks a fight with in this bar will be ready to tear down an Ancient tomorrow. Undaunted by his boldness, Zet corrects the half-god, saying that the Self will not destroy one Ancient, but both of them. Zet conjures a lore projection detailing the story of the Self and the Others.
In the world before the present world, there was only the Self, and there were the Others. The Others, Radinthul and Diruulth, were at strife with their dissonance to each other. They grew too powerful, compelling Zet to end the war, imprisoning them both in its lunar prison. But the Ancients have escaped, and with their power ever increasing, they have been accumulating an army of lesser creatures to battle their conflict for them. Should either Ancient win, their terrible power will end Zet's world and the current world. The Self gave him a scroll and told him to fulfill whatever mystery was inside it.
The story left Zeus with nothing but doubts on his story and an impression that Zet was loquacious. But Zeus mused on the story, and asked Zet if he had any stake in the fight against the "Dirthole" and "Radish" entities. Zet reassured him that if both of his "Ancients" are destroyed, the Self will make him whole again. Zeus still was not convinced plus it did not help that Zet still lived up to Zeus' impressions of Zet, so he told Zet to let him have a taste of this "wholeness" that he was talking about. Zet agrees, and the Self returns to him a very small fragment of his true power—a golden helm forged by the Hammers of Celestarr and imbued with the energies of the Ancients themselves.
As Zeus relished on a morsel of his long-lost power, he truthfully told Zet that he doesn't actually believe in his nonsensical story. But if it does have the prospects of regaining his old power back, then he'd gladly count himself in. He then tries to flirt with Zet by offering him an ambrosia while he tells him the story about his divorce. Zet rejects his advances, telling him that the Self has much work to do tonight, revealing six other scrolls like the one he gave to Zeus.
Hardly concerned with any mortal affairs (including the 3-way battle between the Bronze Legion, the Vhoul, and the Red Mist), Zeus found his own battle to fight when he heard of the Storm Spirit's mastery over storms. Not wanting to share the title and authority over his element, he travels to Roseleaf (on foot) to deal with him and show the world that Zeus is the one and only god of lightning.
Every time he and Storm Spirit have to meet, they always end up dealing with each others' posturing before having a serious conversation. Zeus also had a competition of power against Storm Spirit, with Zeus earning the first point by destroying a building. In response to Zeus' feat, Storm Spirit destroyed an entire army to settle the matter. Frustrated, the mortal god had a temper tantrum and reduced an entire city to a crater.
Zeus' divine family remains mostly the same in the lore of Dota 2. His father is an unnamed Titan whom he overthrew alongside the other titans during his rise to power as the king of the gods. Before his father died, he may have warned him to slay his own son, for he too will repeat the cycle of patricide and overthrow him and his kin in time. Long after his father's death, Zeus has been looking for him.
He has been very unfaithful to his wife Hera after cheating on her with his many trysts with mortal women. Because of this, she may gloat on her husband when he finds himself in an unfortunate event. Over time, he has been slowly regaining his wife's trust and relationship.
Mars and Zeus have a very complicated relationship.
Poseidon and Hades are his only brothers.
The forge god Vulcan might be his son if the real-life family tree of the Greek pantheon is to be used.
The Omniscience knows Zeus and has something to say to him, and Zeus tells the All-knowing One's agent to send his regards to it.
When meeting  Luna, he is curious about her faith to Selemene. He also wishes to meet her personally.
Zeus knows Narcissus.
Bristleback is one of Zeus' favorite drinking partners.
Zeus seems to be fond of  Snapfire's brand of wisdom and he likes the taste of her baked cookies. When pitted against her, he tries not to fight with Beatrix and gets sad if he kills her.
Arc Warden has enlisted Zeus in its army against both Ancients. He even tried flirting with the Self with his divorce story and some ambrosia, but Zet kindly rejected his advances, because it was busy for the night.
While he was at the Sundered Moon, Zeus flirted with  Medusa. Even when she isn't around, he sometimes wishes that she saw his feats and accomplishments.
Zeus tried to flirt with  Hoodwink by turning into a variety of animals, but she didn't care and rejected him anyways.
His main rival is the  Storm Spirit, because Zeus didn't want to share the title and authority of a thunder deity. On the other hand, the rebellious Raijin refused to bow to any sort of divinity nor did he wish to acknowledge him as the "God of Thunder" for he embodied every element of the tempest itself–and Raijin doesn't share what he believes is rightfully his.
It's interesting to note that, during the times they fought, both of them have some aspect of mortality. Raijin is a Celestial trapped in the body of a mortal, while Zeus is a deity turned mortal.
Monkey King once waged a war against the gods of Heaven in their domain. Even after his redemption, he still dislikes the gods and he joined the war of the Ancients so that he can gain dominion over the elder gods that hold him in check.
Just like his real-life counterpart, Zeus' power over the lightning bolt did not come to him naturally nor was it an intrinsic quality that he was born with. In the lore of Dota 2, Zeus and an unnamed race of beings worked together to help him capture the thunderbolt. As a god, he might have shared several other abilities with other gods just like him, such as the power to forge order from chaos, the ability to twist the forms of others, true sight, etc. Zeus claims that the gods can drive people insane if they attract their attention. It's implied that Zeus represents magic as well.
Half of Zeus' powers, which included his divinity and immortality, were taken away from him by his wife Hera in accordance to his oath to be more faithful towards her. According to Zeus, he only gave away the ones that he didn't use. Besides his signature lightning powers, he retained the ability to turn into a swan, which he usually uses to seduce any mortal women that he sees fit for his erotic escapades.
He would gain back a fragment of his old powers when Arc Warden restored them for him. The power came in the form of a golden helm that was forged by the Hammers of Celestarr and charged with the energies of the Ancients themselves. It's unknown what kind of abilities did Zeus recover, but he did regain his cloud chariot that grants him flight and his skin became stony which coursed with lightning. Although he was still diminished of his full power, he realized that he was not cut off from their source. If he could really resolve to be better, he might be able to draw the tendrils of divinity—infused into the endowments of Celestarr—back to his own hands once again.
Long before his fall from the heavens to the mortal realm, Zeus was an immortal god. Much like his boy Mars, he was ageless and immune to the Death Prophet's abilities over the deathly veil, likely because the gods possess a much more powerful version of immortality beyond resurrection and they may transcend the Underscape itself. It is also implied that gods like Zeus and Mars possibly existed before the spirit to some extent, which might support the previous statements.
The following powers are all based on Zeus' affinity to the sky and lightning element.
Arc Lightning is Zeus' favorite magical spell to use against puny mortals, likely because of the way it dispatches them so quickly with its leaping lightning.
The  Lightning Bolt is his signature weapon and the symbol of his power. First captured by himself with the help of an unnamed race in a daring task to capture the thunderbolt, he now wields it to smite any faithless rebels against him. When he isn't holding it, his thunderbolt wanders the skies and clouds, always ready to answer his call.
His mere presence can create a  Static Field that permeates the surrounding air, shocking anyone unfortunate enough to be near him.
Gameplay-wise,  Nimbus simply summons a ward-like object that shoots lightning bolts. But in its lore, it describes how easily storm clouds can gather when Zeus simply gets angry.
The full brunt of his power,  Thundergod's Wrath allows Zeus to smite anyone who opposes him with lightning, regardless of their distance.
Allies meeting Zeus
Enemies killing Zeus
Enemies dying to Zeus
Others
